5-Year Old Girl, Puzzling Symptoms & Blood Tests 
 thisisnotaredditacc 
 Fri Aug 8 16:14:15 2014 UTC 
 Hi there. The patient (daughter of my best friend), has been sick in various ways since the beginning of the year. At first it seemed like an extended cold or flu, which included an ear infection, for which she took antibiotics. There was also a household dosing of Combantrin, because of worms in another family member. There is a slight possibility of swallowing river water. Patient is female, five years old, average height and weight, Caucasian, no medications, no history of medical complaints prior to this year, very healthy diet, usually very active (other than for the past few weeks, due to fatigue). Current symptoms as follows: Persistent lethargy. Much reduced energy levels. Slightly swollen lymph glands. They were very swollen when she had the cold or flu. Bloating after eating, especially when food has higher sugar content (porridge with added honey, yogurt). Pain in stomach area, especially after eating. Reduced appetite. Not greatly reduced, but definitely some reduction. Intermittent appearance of hives, about once per month. Sometimes they have covered her entire body. Local doctor said likely food reaction, but was not sure. Blood tests were done on the basics. Most things came up normal, but several were abnormal, without a clearly related pattern (for us). Abnormal blood results as follows: Glucose - Low - 3.1 Iron - Low - 4.0 C-reactive protein - High - 9.5 TSH - High - 7.3 Monocytes - High - 1.0 If anything occurs to you I'd appreciate hearing it. Thank you for your time. 
  
 pm_me_yo_boobs_mlady 
 Fri Aug 8 18:48:39 2014 UTC 
 Have you had her screened for coeliacs? I had that thought, too, but no, she hasn't had that test. I thought that bowel troubles were the most common symptom for that, though, and her bowels are good. Not always, her low iron and high monocytes alongside bloating sounds indicative. Try her on a gluten free diet to see if she improves? It can't hurt! 
  
 thisisnotaredditacc 
 Fri Aug 8 19:01:05 2014 UTC 
 I had that thought, too, but no, she hasn't had that test. I thought that bowel troubles were the most common symptom for that, though, and her bowels are good. Not always, her low iron and high monocytes alongside bloating sounds indicative. Try her on a gluten free diet to see if she improves? It can't hurt! 
  
 pm_me_yo_boobs_mlady 
 Fri Aug 8 19:02:39 2014 UTC 
 Not always, her low iron and high monocytes alongside bloating sounds indicative. Try her on a gluten free diet to see if she improves? It can't hurt! 
  
 hipsterdocmd 
 Fri Aug 8 19:50:16 2014 UTC 
 Is there lead in the home, eg old paint? Is she anemic? I don't believe so. The house is certainly not old. It was built in 2000. However, they did have whole-house water filters installed, which were soldered into the main water pipes. They stopped using the filters and when they removed the filters from the soldered-in filter containers, found a ball of solder sitting in one of them. This was prior to their daughter's birth, but perhaps there were more solder balls. I don't have her blood tests in front of me, but one reading for iron came up low. I don't think the doctor said she was anemic, though. 
  
 thisisnotaredditacc 
 Fri Aug 8 20:13:50 2014 UTC 
 I don't believe so. The house is certainly not old. It was built in 2000. However, they did have whole-house water filters installed, which were soldered into the main water pipes. They stopped using the filters and when they removed the filters from the soldered-in filter containers, found a ball of solder sitting in one of them. This was prior to their daughter's birth, but perhaps there were more solder balls. I don't have her blood tests in front of me, but one reading for iron came up low. I don't think the doctor said she was anemic, though. 
  
 maximuszen 
 Fri Aug 8 19:51:44 2014 UTC 
 environmental exposure history please/family history She has lived in the same house all her life and it was built in 2000. No known exposure to environmental toxins. She plays in public parks and family backyards. Her diet is whole-foods based (no TV dinners; porridge for breakfast rather than sugary cereals) and she doesn't eat seafood (most of her family doesn't like it). However, her father had been repeatedly exposed to heavy metals, including lead, mercury and cadmium (he worked with industrial paints and other things before those heavy metals were banned in his country). Her father was diagnosed by his doctor with chronic fatigue syndrome in the 90s, but he says he has improved quite a bit since then. They have never checked the house for toxins, although the father did have a check-up shortly after she was born (he has them annually) and his blood levels of mercury were up. They have no idea how that happened, since mercury apparently doesn't stick around in the blood and his work exposure was many years ago. His doctor said checking for his blood lead levels is pretty much useless unless you've just been exposed. Anything else they should look for? Does her father still do the same kind of work? No, he has an entirely different line of work. He works mostly from home now, on his computer. He has done a little urban exploration, though, where he explored abandoned buildings. 
  
 thisisnotaredditacc 
 Fri Aug 8 20:19:04 2014 UTC 
 She has lived in the same house all her life and it was built in 2000. No known exposure to environmental toxins. She plays in public parks and family backyards. Her diet is whole-foods based (no TV dinners; porridge for breakfast rather than sugary cereals) and she doesn't eat seafood (most of her family doesn't like it). However, her father had been repeatedly exposed to heavy metals, including lead, mercury and cadmium (he worked with industrial paints and other things before those heavy metals were banned in his country). Her father was diagnosed by his doctor with chronic fatigue syndrome in the 90s, but he says he has improved quite a bit since then. They have never checked the house for toxins, although the father did have a check-up shortly after she was born (he has them annually) and his blood levels of mercury were up. They have no idea how that happened, since mercury apparently doesn't stick around in the blood and his work exposure was many years ago. His doctor said checking for his blood lead levels is pretty much useless unless you've just been exposed. Anything else they should look for? Does her father still do the same kind of work? No, he has an entirely different line of work. He works mostly from home now, on his computer. He has done a little urban exploration, though, where he explored abandoned buildings. 
  
 maximuszen 
 Sat Aug 9 18:41:14 2014 UTC 
 Does her father still do the same kind of work? No, he has an entirely different line of work. He works mostly from home now, on his computer. He has done a little urban exploration, though, where he explored abandoned buildings. 
  
 thisisnotaredditacc 
 Sat Aug 9 20:46:01 2014 UTC 
 No, he has an entirely different line of work. He works mostly from home now, on his computer. He has done a little urban exploration, though, where he explored abandoned buildings. 
  
 saraithegeek 
 Fri Aug 8 21:27:36 2014 UTC 
 Since someone already mentioned celiac, a few other thoughts just scanning the list: Fructose malabsorption: especially since she seems more bloated after consuming sugar. Lactose intolerance should be investigated as well. Addison's disease: since she's hypoglycemic would be a good idea to check for this. Thyroid disease: that TSH needs to be investigated further. At minimum a FT4 test. FYI it would help if you gave units of measure for your lab results as different areas use different measures for example I report glucose in mg/dL (normal range 70-100 mg/dL). Also I am assuming that is an absolute monocyte count and not a percentage? Thanks for the reply. Their doctor has apparently ordered tests for T3 and T4 and also for mononucleosis, although we don't really think mono explains all the symptoms and blood test results. I don't have the blood test results with me, but the monocytes results are definitely not a percentage. I will mention your other suggestions for tests. I assumed because 1% monocytes would be low, not high. Monocytes are kind of tough, and obviously reference ranges vary but at my hospital the normal range extends to 0.9 SO a 1 may not be that elevated. My rule with interpreting tests when I don't know the diagnosis is that abnormals that small are not usually significant, it has to do with how we calculate reference ranges, a small percentage of healthy people (~5%) will flag as abnormal. Just FYI. 
  
 thisisnotaredditacc 
 Sat Aug 9 16:11:25 2014 UTC 
 Thanks for the reply. Their doctor has apparently ordered tests for T3 and T4 and also for mononucleosis, although we don't really think mono explains all the symptoms and blood test results. I don't have the blood test results with me, but the monocytes results are definitely not a percentage. I will mention your other suggestions for tests. I assumed because 1% monocytes would be low, not high. Monocytes are kind of tough, and obviously reference ranges vary but at my hospital the normal range extends to 0.9 SO a 1 may not be that elevated. My rule with interpreting tests when I don't know the diagnosis is that abnormals that small are not usually significant, it has to do with how we calculate reference ranges, a small percentage of healthy people (~5%) will flag as abnormal. Just FYI. 
  
 saraithegeek 
 Sat Aug 9 16:20:55 2014 UTC 
 I assumed because 1% monocytes would be low, not high. Monocytes are kind of tough, and obviously reference ranges vary but at my hospital the normal range extends to 0.9 SO a 1 may not be that elevated. My rule with interpreting tests when I don't know the diagnosis is that abnormals that small are not usually significant, it has to do with how we calculate reference ranges, a small percentage of healthy people (~5%) will flag as abnormal. Just FYI. 
  
 