Painful erections a month after having a Foley Catheter. 
 AwwwFiddlesticks 
 Sat Jan 17 03:19:16 2015 UTC 
 I had surgery on December 15, 2014 and had a Foley Catheter for about 5 days. During that time they took out my catheter, but I was unable to urinate because the epidural I had blocked my ability to pee. To my horror, they had to reinsert it, but this time I was awake. After getting out of hospital, I had pain during my erections when my penis laid flat on my stomach. The pain was inside and at the base of the penis. I did not have any pain when urinating or when my penis was flaccid. Although it probably wasn't the best idea, I did masterbate during this time because the pain only happened when my penis was in a certain position. I went to my doctor and he said it was just bruising from the catheter and that it would go away. It's been about 2 weeks since I saw my doctor and recently the pain has gotten worse. I first noticed the progression when I tried to masterbate. My erection was slightly painful and attempting to masterbate hurt so I stopped. Since then I haven't had an erection but I'm pretty sure that my pain is not from bruising since it has gotten worse. I'd like to reiterate that I only have pain during erections, none during urination or when flaccid. I'm planning on seeing my doctor again but I was wondering if anyone has any idea what could be wrong? When searching online I couldn't find any type of infection that only causes pain during erections. Edit: I'm a 17 year old male, 125 lbs, and 5'11". 
  
 murpahurp 
 Sat Jan 17 13:51:10 2015 UTC 
 Foley chatheters can cause a little bruising on the inside, especially in the area where your urethra bends around your prostate. It's wise to have this checked by your doctor to see if its just a sort of bruise, or if you have some sort of infection going on. 
  
 Mathlife 
 Sat Jan 17 14:05:38 2015 UTC 
 Do you experience pain when you urinate? I would think you probably got a type of urinary tract infection from the catheter. This occurs quite regularly and cause pain when you urinate or when your penis is in an erect state. I would recommend to see your doctor again and ask for an urine test to check for possible infections. No pain whatsoever while urinating. 
  
 AwwwFiddlesticks 
 Sat Jan 17 21:39:07 2015 UTC 
 No pain whatsoever while urinating. 
  
 grubby_butter 
 Thu Feb 5 03:33:59 2015 UTC 
 I've infiltrated you too now, Steeltits 
  
 Redchannit 
 Fri Mar 6 04:10:01 2015 UTC 
 So did you ever find out what it was that was causing the pain? It eventually went away so it must've been bruising like my doctor said initially. I got worried because it lasted longer than I expected and didn't seem to be getting better. It was odd, the healing didn't seem progressive, the pain just seemed to go away at some point. Thanks for asking. 
  
 AwwwFiddlesticks 
 Fri Mar 6 05:19:28 2015 UTC 
 It eventually went away so it must've been bruising like my doctor said initially. I got worried because it lasted longer than I expected and didn't seem to be getting better. It was odd, the healing didn't seem progressive, the pain just seemed to go away at some point. Thanks for asking. 
  
 illiterate- 
 Sat Jan 17 05:51:48 2015 UTC 
 Are you on any meds? What did you require a Foley? Have you had any spinal or neuro injuries? This condition is called priapism. I haven't crossed any information that resulted in a Foley causing priapism. This is not priapism Did you look up priapism and cherry pick the "painful erection" part.... then just gloss over the other important parts, like an erection lasting over 4 hours... etc. It's not priapism, if he'd had it for this long he'd be in a lot more trouble... I had the nuss procedure done on my pectus excavatum (a dip in the rib cage). I had an epidural in for 5 days and a catheter in the whole time. It got removed at one point but that had to reinsert it because I couldn't urinate. Putting the catheter in the second time could have led to more bruising. I am not on any meds any more and my back is fine. 
  
 mfac0924 
 Sat Jan 17 08:57:43 2015 UTC 
 This is not priapism 
  
 probblyincorrext 
 Sat Jan 17 12:42:55 2015 UTC 
 Did you look up priapism and cherry pick the "painful erection" part.... then just gloss over the other important parts, like an erection lasting over 4 hours... etc. It's not priapism, if he'd had it for this long he'd be in a lot more trouble... 
  
 AwwwFiddlesticks 
 Sat Jan 17 21:42:20 2015 UTC 
 I had the nuss procedure done on my pectus excavatum (a dip in the rib cage). I had an epidural in for 5 days and a catheter in the whole time. It got removed at one point but that had to reinsert it because I couldn't urinate. Putting the catheter in the second time could have led to more bruising. I am not on any meds any more and my back is fine. 
  
 