I [23 F] have had pneumonia 3 times within a year. Should I be concerned? 
 RockstarSlut 
 Tue Feb 3 19:53:55 2015 UTC 
 First time I post to this sub! Hi! I could really appreciate some advice. I am a 23 year old otherwise healthy woman, physically. I run and eat healthy most of the time, I hardly ever drink anymore, and I stopped smoking a year ago. I was diagnosed (once again) with pneumonia this Sunday by a doctor. I recently had it last summer, and before that during the spring in 2014, which makes it 3 times in a row. This time and the last time were very painful to me. Last time it was so bad, it triggered a herpes infection outside and inside my right eye! I kinda feel like pneumonia has come to stay, and I am very afraid of it now, because of how painful and unpleasant it can be. I am wondering if I should see a doctor about it, so I can be examined and figure out why I have gotten it this many times already? The doctor I saw Sunday said that you are more prone to get it again if you've had before. If that's true, does this mean it's just a vicious cycle now? I lived in an apartment for two years which was very damp. Maybe that could have had an influence on my lungs? I moved out of it a year ago this April, though. My mom has asthma, but I don't think I have that. Pretty sure I don't. I would really appreciate your thoughts on this! English isn't my first language so sorry if there are any mistakes. Thanks! Edit: words Edit 2: I have taken penicillin all 3 times. 
  
 Dr_Pooks 
 Tue Feb 3 20:09:14 2015 UTC 
 GP here. This answer is probably going to come across as cynical. The first question I would ask is if you actually had a chest x-ray three times this year actually documenting pneumonia with the episodes you describe. There are a lot of nebulous diagnoses of "pneumonia" by doctors in people your age which probably aren't pneumonia at all. The medical definition of pneumonia is an acute infection of the lung tissue itself and usually goes along with thickening of the lung tissue on x-ray. Many times, people get told that they have "pneumonia" when in fact they have other less serious respiratory infections like influenza, or the common cold, or acute viral bronchitis or an asthma flare. Usually you need a chest x-ray to show that there is a serious infection in the lung to prove that the symptoms are being caused by pneumonia and not something else. It's also important to know that antibiotics won't help or are not needed in most people with any of the other conditions if their chest x-rays are normal. If you didn't get a chest x-ray with the three bouts of chest infections, in an otherwise healthy female, it is very unlikely IMO that you had pneumonia three times. Not every chest infection needs a chest x-ray, but if a doctor thinks you are sick enough to have pneumonia and is prescribing you antibiotics for it, then you should be suspicious of the diagnosis if they aren't checking for it with testing. It's much more like that you may have another condition like asthma like your mother, which can be tested for in the office by your doctor with flow meters or at the hospital with lung tests. Edit: Spelling Thank you so much for your thorough answer! I really learned something new today. I have not had a chest x-ray before. They have only heard me breathe and measured how bad my infection level is with a quick blood sample, which means you are right! And it's really good to know. The antibiotics are helping tremendously with my recovery, though. But if it isn't pneumonia, is there a reason why I get infections that have such a painful effect on my lungs 3 times in a row? Or is it just a coincidence? I will definitely check with my doctor to see if I have asthma. Thank you again! That was a very insightful answer. It's somewhat unfair of me to criticize or second-guess your past diagnoses because I don't know all the details and I wasn't there. But I see a lot of my colleagues using antibiotics for viruses or diagnosing pneumonia on pretty shaky grounds and I'm sure it happens everywhere. It's always hard to tell if it was the antibiotics that made your chest infection better or if the chest infection would have got better on it's own anyway. My guess would be that it's more likely that you had something like a virus causing bronchitis, which doesn't need antibiotics since they don't help, or you got a virus that made your asthma flare up, which needs asthma treatment and not antibiotics, since again, they don't help. There are only a few lung conditions at your age that need antibiotics or which antibiotics can help. Pneumonia is one. Bad ear, sinus and throat infections sometimes need antibiotics. So does whooping cough. But that's about it. All of the rest are caused by viruses or allergies or inflammation, and need rest or other treatments. Repeated cases of bronchitis at your age would make me suspicious that you could have undiagnosed asthma. As I mentioned before, your doctor can diagnose you by taking a history or sending you for lung tests. If your doctor thinks you might have asthma and you keep getting these bad bouts of bronchitis, you might need a steroid inhaler daily to keep if from happening. Wow, I really appreciate your input and knowledge! That definitely shed some light on what's really going on. Not any of my doctor's appointments have been thorough enough, I think, for them to judge if it's pneumonia, judging by what you're saying. I have only been in there for 5-10 minutes at a time for a quick examination and then they have all said "pneumonia" and prescribed antibiotics for treatment. This time around I'm even taking a double doses. And yes, it is kind of hard to actually know if the pills are working or not. I basically have no idea. I just do whatever I'm told by the doctors. It's kinda sloppy of them, if it's not actually working, since I don't want to take any unnecessary pills. I will get checked for asthma to be sure! I really want the right treatment in order to stop this from recurring. It's rare I feel like crying from physical pain, but the pain from coughing and regular breathing was so damn painful, I couldn't help it. I will go and fix an appointment with my doctor. Thank you so much for your advice! I wish you a great day, evening, night or morning, depending on where you are. :) What an awesome subreddit. 
  
 RockstarSlut 
 Tue Feb 3 20:38:00 2015 UTC 
 Thank you so much for your thorough answer! I really learned something new today. I have not had a chest x-ray before. They have only heard me breathe and measured how bad my infection level is with a quick blood sample, which means you are right! And it's really good to know. The antibiotics are helping tremendously with my recovery, though. But if it isn't pneumonia, is there a reason why I get infections that have such a painful effect on my lungs 3 times in a row? Or is it just a coincidence? I will definitely check with my doctor to see if I have asthma. Thank you again! That was a very insightful answer. It's somewhat unfair of me to criticize or second-guess your past diagnoses because I don't know all the details and I wasn't there. But I see a lot of my colleagues using antibiotics for viruses or diagnosing pneumonia on pretty shaky grounds and I'm sure it happens everywhere. It's always hard to tell if it was the antibiotics that made your chest infection better or if the chest infection would have got better on it's own anyway. My guess would be that it's more likely that you had something like a virus causing bronchitis, which doesn't need antibiotics since they don't help, or you got a virus that made your asthma flare up, which needs asthma treatment and not antibiotics, since again, they don't help. There are only a few lung conditions at your age that need antibiotics or which antibiotics can help. Pneumonia is one. Bad ear, sinus and throat infections sometimes need antibiotics. So does whooping cough. But that's about it. All of the rest are caused by viruses or allergies or inflammation, and need rest or other treatments. Repeated cases of bronchitis at your age would make me suspicious that you could have undiagnosed asthma. As I mentioned before, your doctor can diagnose you by taking a history or sending you for lung tests. If your doctor thinks you might have asthma and you keep getting these bad bouts of bronchitis, you might need a steroid inhaler daily to keep if from happening. Wow, I really appreciate your input and knowledge! That definitely shed some light on what's really going on. Not any of my doctor's appointments have been thorough enough, I think, for them to judge if it's pneumonia, judging by what you're saying. I have only been in there for 5-10 minutes at a time for a quick examination and then they have all said "pneumonia" and prescribed antibiotics for treatment. This time around I'm even taking a double doses. And yes, it is kind of hard to actually know if the pills are working or not. I basically have no idea. I just do whatever I'm told by the doctors. It's kinda sloppy of them, if it's not actually working, since I don't want to take any unnecessary pills. I will get checked for asthma to be sure! I really want the right treatment in order to stop this from recurring. It's rare I feel like crying from physical pain, but the pain from coughing and regular breathing was so damn painful, I couldn't help it. I will go and fix an appointment with my doctor. Thank you so much for your advice! I wish you a great day, evening, night or morning, depending on where you are. :) What an awesome subreddit. 
  
 Dr_Pooks 
 Tue Feb 3 21:08:11 2015 UTC 
 It's somewhat unfair of me to criticize or second-guess your past diagnoses because I don't know all the details and I wasn't there. But I see a lot of my colleagues using antibiotics for viruses or diagnosing pneumonia on pretty shaky grounds and I'm sure it happens everywhere. It's always hard to tell if it was the antibiotics that made your chest infection better or if the chest infection would have got better on it's own anyway. My guess would be that it's more likely that you had something like a virus causing bronchitis, which doesn't need antibiotics since they don't help, or you got a virus that made your asthma flare up, which needs asthma treatment and not antibiotics, since again, they don't help. There are only a few lung conditions at your age that need antibiotics or which antibiotics can help. Pneumonia is one. Bad ear, sinus and throat infections sometimes need antibiotics. So does whooping cough. But that's about it. All of the rest are caused by viruses or allergies or inflammation, and need rest or other treatments. Repeated cases of bronchitis at your age would make me suspicious that you could have undiagnosed asthma. As I mentioned before, your doctor can diagnose you by taking a history or sending you for lung tests. If your doctor thinks you might have asthma and you keep getting these bad bouts of bronchitis, you might need a steroid inhaler daily to keep if from happening. Wow, I really appreciate your input and knowledge! That definitely shed some light on what's really going on. Not any of my doctor's appointments have been thorough enough, I think, for them to judge if it's pneumonia, judging by what you're saying. I have only been in there for 5-10 minutes at a time for a quick examination and then they have all said "pneumonia" and prescribed antibiotics for treatment. This time around I'm even taking a double doses. And yes, it is kind of hard to actually know if the pills are working or not. I basically have no idea. I just do whatever I'm told by the doctors. It's kinda sloppy of them, if it's not actually working, since I don't want to take any unnecessary pills. I will get checked for asthma to be sure! I really want the right treatment in order to stop this from recurring. It's rare I feel like crying from physical pain, but the pain from coughing and regular breathing was so damn painful, I couldn't help it. I will go and fix an appointment with my doctor. Thank you so much for your advice! I wish you a great day, evening, night or morning, depending on where you are. :) What an awesome subreddit. 
  
 RockstarSlut 
 Tue Feb 3 21:34:29 2015 UTC 
 Wow, I really appreciate your input and knowledge! That definitely shed some light on what's really going on. Not any of my doctor's appointments have been thorough enough, I think, for them to judge if it's pneumonia, judging by what you're saying. I have only been in there for 5-10 minutes at a time for a quick examination and then they have all said "pneumonia" and prescribed antibiotics for treatment. This time around I'm even taking a double doses. And yes, it is kind of hard to actually know if the pills are working or not. I basically have no idea. I just do whatever I'm told by the doctors. It's kinda sloppy of them, if it's not actually working, since I don't want to take any unnecessary pills. I will get checked for asthma to be sure! I really want the right treatment in order to stop this from recurring. It's rare I feel like crying from physical pain, but the pain from coughing and regular breathing was so damn painful, I couldn't help it. I will go and fix an appointment with my doctor. Thank you so much for your advice! I wish you a great day, evening, night or morning, depending on where you are. :) What an awesome subreddit. 
  
 