The blood i donated tested reactive to hepatitis b? 
 TotzWizdom 
 Fri Feb 20 00:41:27 2015 UTC 
 I had a cold and i donated blood. Is it possible that me having a cold could have interfered with the test? I am showing no symptoms and calling the doctor tomorrow. I just want to know so I could stop freaking out. Age: 18
Sex: Male
Height: 6'6''
Weight: 180
Race: Caucasian 
  
 tcc1 
 Fri Feb 20 01:17:06 2015 UTC 
 Reactive as in your been immunized? I wasn't vaccinated but they aren't taking my blood because it said i might have hepatitis b Are you certain you haven't been vaccinated? You're young enough that it may have been included in your basic vaccinations as a child. Your blood reacting to Hep B would mean that your body has at some point encountered it. That could mean actually having Hep B, but it could also be a result of vaccination or having come in contact with the virus but successfully defending against it. It only means that your body recognizes it for some reason. I'm positive I wasn't vaccinated, my parents were the ones who told me that it happened because they read the letter. I gave blood a couple months ago and I didn't receive that letter Why did your parents not vaccinate you? Not sure I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 TotzWizdom 
 Fri Feb 20 01:26:47 2015 UTC 
 I wasn't vaccinated but they aren't taking my blood because it said i might have hepatitis b Are you certain you haven't been vaccinated? You're young enough that it may have been included in your basic vaccinations as a child. Your blood reacting to Hep B would mean that your body has at some point encountered it. That could mean actually having Hep B, but it could also be a result of vaccination or having come in contact with the virus but successfully defending against it. It only means that your body recognizes it for some reason. I'm positive I wasn't vaccinated, my parents were the ones who told me that it happened because they read the letter. I gave blood a couple months ago and I didn't receive that letter Why did your parents not vaccinate you? Not sure I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 Fozee 
 Fri Feb 20 01:31:53 2015 UTC 
 Are you certain you haven't been vaccinated? You're young enough that it may have been included in your basic vaccinations as a child. Your blood reacting to Hep B would mean that your body has at some point encountered it. That could mean actually having Hep B, but it could also be a result of vaccination or having come in contact with the virus but successfully defending against it. It only means that your body recognizes it for some reason. I'm positive I wasn't vaccinated, my parents were the ones who told me that it happened because they read the letter. I gave blood a couple months ago and I didn't receive that letter Why did your parents not vaccinate you? Not sure I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 TotzWizdom 
 Fri Feb 20 01:38:29 2015 UTC 
 I'm positive I wasn't vaccinated, my parents were the ones who told me that it happened because they read the letter. I gave blood a couple months ago and I didn't receive that letter Why did your parents not vaccinate you? Not sure I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 DrTheSciNerd 
 Fri Feb 20 01:47:01 2015 UTC 
 Why did your parents not vaccinate you? Not sure I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 TotzWizdom 
 Fri Feb 20 02:03:53 2015 UTC 
 Not sure I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 DrTheSciNerd 
 Fri Feb 20 11:09:00 2015 UTC 
 I really hope your tests come back negative. There is no cure for chronic Hep B, and it can cause liver cancer. It is absolutely senseless that a US-born baby gets Hep B. 
  
 DrTheSciNerd 
 Fri Feb 20 01:09:34 2015 UTC 
 Where were you born? chicago Unless your parents denied you the protection of Hep B vaccines at birth and during infancy, it could be a false positive. Of 100 HBV+ results, as many as 10 could be false positives based on the blood bank screening test. Your doctor can do a definitive blood test to figure out what's actually going on. 
  
 TotzWizdom 
 Fri Feb 20 01:25:00 2015 UTC 
 chicago Unless your parents denied you the protection of Hep B vaccines at birth and during infancy, it could be a false positive. Of 100 HBV+ results, as many as 10 could be false positives based on the blood bank screening test. Your doctor can do a definitive blood test to figure out what's actually going on. 
  
 DrTheSciNerd 
 Fri Feb 20 01:37:54 2015 UTC 
 Unless your parents denied you the protection of Hep B vaccines at birth and during infancy, it could be a false positive. Of 100 HBV+ results, as many as 10 could be false positives based on the blood bank screening test. Your doctor can do a definitive blood test to figure out what's actually going on. 
  
 TotzWizdom 
 Fri Feb 20 00:44:44 2015 UTC 
 Also I gave blood before and they took it, I've only been with my girlfriend sexually since then. I also had Palpable purpura if that helps at all 
  
 