My primary is at a loss, help please 
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 19:55:55 2015 UTC 
 I am a 28 yo female, 5'10, 175 lbs. diagnosed w hypertension about six months ago, admitted to hospital in hypertensive crisis Friday night. 180/135. Cholesterol good, thyroid normal, EKG clear, heart ultrasound clear. Ear dr was surprised to learn that I've been on beta blockers for a few months, as apparently they tend to not work properly in women my age. Been getting blinding headaches and double vision. In addition to beta blockers, I take birth control, 20mg celexa, and 5000 iu vitamin D3 every day. Otherwise healthy. My primary says I'm probably just "under stress" as I have a special needs toddler. Ear doctor says hypertension to that degree doesn't occur idiopathically in women my age. My primary is an NP and doesn't seem to know what to do next. Please, any suggestions are welcome. Possible diagnoses, tests I should ask to have run, anything. I've been having horrible headaches and chest pain and no one seems to know why. Cape cod MA 
  
 itszimz 
 Mon Feb 23 21:06:10 2015 UTC 
 Palpitations? Sweating? Tremors? Nausea? Palpitations, shaky hands, and not exactly nausea, but I dry heaved a few times. But didn't feel nauseous exactly....like I didn't feel as though I was going to vomit, but it came out of nowhere How about sweating, especially to an unusual degree? Do these headaches and palpitations come and go in episodes or are they always around? Maybe a little bit of sweating, but not enough that I've really thought about it...palpitations seem to be episodic, but headaches are pretty constant...headache becomes blinding if I keep my head straight but move my eyes upward And it isn't as if the palpitations, headaches, high bp, etc only happen w exertion... Sometimes im just watching TV, sometimes I just ran up the stairs. When I decided to go to the ER, I was just cooking dinner 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 22:20:17 2015 UTC 
 Palpitations, shaky hands, and not exactly nausea, but I dry heaved a few times. But didn't feel nauseous exactly....like I didn't feel as though I was going to vomit, but it came out of nowhere How about sweating, especially to an unusual degree? Do these headaches and palpitations come and go in episodes or are they always around? Maybe a little bit of sweating, but not enough that I've really thought about it...palpitations seem to be episodic, but headaches are pretty constant...headache becomes blinding if I keep my head straight but move my eyes upward And it isn't as if the palpitations, headaches, high bp, etc only happen w exertion... Sometimes im just watching TV, sometimes I just ran up the stairs. When I decided to go to the ER, I was just cooking dinner 
  
 itszimz 
 Mon Feb 23 22:32:46 2015 UTC 
 How about sweating, especially to an unusual degree? Do these headaches and palpitations come and go in episodes or are they always around? Maybe a little bit of sweating, but not enough that I've really thought about it...palpitations seem to be episodic, but headaches are pretty constant...headache becomes blinding if I keep my head straight but move my eyes upward And it isn't as if the palpitations, headaches, high bp, etc only happen w exertion... Sometimes im just watching TV, sometimes I just ran up the stairs. When I decided to go to the ER, I was just cooking dinner 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 22:41:31 2015 UTC 
 Maybe a little bit of sweating, but not enough that I've really thought about it...palpitations seem to be episodic, but headaches are pretty constant...headache becomes blinding if I keep my head straight but move my eyes upward 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 22:44:27 2015 UTC 
 And it isn't as if the palpitations, headaches, high bp, etc only happen w exertion... Sometimes im just watching TV, sometimes I just ran up the stairs. When I decided to go to the ER, I was just cooking dinner 
  
 kills_a_lot 
 Mon Feb 23 22:54:26 2015 UTC 
 Did you try any other medications before starting on a beta blocker? What was your bp running prior to starting this medication? Has your PCP titrated your medication dose upward? Beta blockers aren't a first line choice for hypertension usually, but are for women that are pregnant or possibly going to become pregnant, which is lots of women in their 20s-30s. My initial thoughts are that you may need a higher dose, as the range of theraputic dosages on this class of medications is pretty wide. You said the ultrasound of your heart was normal, but did you have an ultrasound of your renal arteries? A renal artery duplex to look for arterial stenosis is usually the next step in primary care for hypertension that doesn't improve with medication. There are also some other blood and urine tests to assess kidney function and look for hormone secreting tumors, but if all the lab work is normal, there is no response to a combination of medications, and the ultrasound is normal, then you really need referral to a specialist. Hypertension is an every day diagnosis in primary care, so your PCP should be able to give you a pretty good workup before a referral. I was on a calcium channel blocker first, to try to "kill to birds" being the headaches and hypertension. My bp was normal until about august, started reading about 160/90, and has been on an upward climb. We upped dosage of CCB, then tried BB, and upped dosage of that two weeks ago...my BP has not only not been reduced, its steadily climbing. I messaged my PCP today to ask for a kidney ultrasound, she messaged me back saying we should "meet and see if that's the right path for me" I honestly just feel at this point that I need a "medical advocate" so to speak, because she just isn't listening to me and keeps making me have tests that are prprobably unnecessary. I have a brain CT on Tuesday, because of the headaches, but I would guess that the high bp is causing headaches, not the other way around. Its just exhausting, I didn't go to med school, and I have to rely on this women. When she prescribed the beta blockers, she first mentioned putting me on a diuretic instead, but ended up settling on BB And I know hypertension is so common, which is part of why I'm so concerned! If I had some super rare, difficult to diagnose disease, I'd certainly be dead. 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 23:02:25 2015 UTC 
 I was on a calcium channel blocker first, to try to "kill to birds" being the headaches and hypertension. My bp was normal until about august, started reading about 160/90, and has been on an upward climb. We upped dosage of CCB, then tried BB, and upped dosage of that two weeks ago...my BP has not only not been reduced, its steadily climbing. I messaged my PCP today to ask for a kidney ultrasound, she messaged me back saying we should "meet and see if that's the right path for me" I honestly just feel at this point that I need a "medical advocate" so to speak, because she just isn't listening to me and keeps making me have tests that are prprobably unnecessary. I have a brain CT on Tuesday, because of the headaches, but I would guess that the high bp is causing headaches, not the other way around. Its just exhausting, I didn't go to med school, and I have to rely on this women. When she prescribed the beta blockers, she first mentioned putting me on a diuretic instead, but ended up settling on BB 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 23:06:27 2015 UTC 
 And I know hypertension is so common, which is part of why I'm so concerned! If I had some super rare, difficult to diagnose disease, I'd certainly be dead. 
  
 slodojo 
 Tue Feb 24 03:15:43 2015 UTC 
 Go find another primary care doctor. Edit: sorry, that's not a very helpful comment. But your PCP should be able to handle this, or at least communicate a plan with you on what you are doing and what you will do next if it doesn't work. Don't listen to your ENT about hypertension, either. Pretty much the idea is to see if there is something else causing your blood pressure to be high. Have you already had that renal ultrasound or is that getting checked - it doesn't seem like your NP is "clueless" if she ordered that, since it will address some of the most common causes of resistant hypertension. A lot of people forget sleep apnea as a cause for hypertension. Are you taking any other supplements or pills at all? Using any drugs? What are you taking the vitamin d for - do you know that you are deficient in it? If this doesn't get resolved, you may need to see a hypertension specialist. Check out this page: http://m.ash-us.org/HTN-Specialist/HTN-Specialists-Directory.aspx no drugs or other supplements, my vit d is ridiculously low, so I take pills. My pcp didn't actually order a renal ultrasound, I suggested it to her after talking to other healthcare professionals. It seemed like she hadn't even considered that, or any tests, really. And the heart ultrasound was done by the ER doctor. My pcp ran exactly zero tests before just putting me on meds and calling it a day 
  
 aordsao 
 Tue Feb 24 03:34:35 2015 UTC 
 no drugs or other supplements, my vit d is ridiculously low, so I take pills. My pcp didn't actually order a renal ultrasound, I suggested it to her after talking to other healthcare professionals. It seemed like she hadn't even considered that, or any tests, really. And the heart ultrasound was done by the ER doctor. My pcp ran exactly zero tests before just putting me on meds and calling it a day 
  
 chandetox 
 Tue Feb 24 02:33:40 2015 UTC 
 Just a nurse here, not really qualified, but as I work at a rheumatologic unit... Hardly anybody ever thinks of arteriitis temporalis. But really I'm not a doctor 
  
 Traumajunkie971 
 Mon Feb 23 20:17:14 2015 UTC 
 skip cape cod hospital and take a ride to Boston The ER I went to was actually a south coast hospital, but my primary is on the cape. I moved to MA from Ny a few years ago, and I really have heard some horror stories about misdiagnoses in cape cod/Falmouth hospitals 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 20:20:04 2015 UTC 
 The ER I went to was actually a south coast hospital, but my primary is on the cape. 
  
 aordsao 
 Mon Feb 23 20:24:06 2015 UTC 
 I moved to MA from Ny a few years ago, and I really have heard some horror stories about misdiagnoses in cape cod/Falmouth hospitals 
  
 nursegreen 
 Tue Feb 24 02:11:44 2015 UTC 
 I would ask for a pheochromocytoma work up. Pheochromocytoma is an adrenal gland tumor that causes all of the symptoms you've mentioned and in the same sporadic fashion. Do you know if you have any family history of this or other tumors? You're in the age group for this diagnosis and having unmanageable Htn. The initial testing is usually just a 24hr urine collection looking for catecholamines. Blood testing may be done too, followed by radiologic studies if there is high suspicion for this type of tumor. [med student, last year, GER] To me it also looks as it could be pheochromocytoma. It's still unlikely (because rare), but it has to be checked. A picture of her would be really helpful to look for the common changes in looks under the influence of elevated corticoids, but I guess noone wants to post pictures of themselves on the web.. /u/aordaso, have you by any chance recognized any of these signs? Edit: And here is a list of the signs (in the skin) in patients with cushing's syndrome taken from dermnetnz.com Signs and symptoms appearing in the skin include: Easy bruising (purpura) and purple striae of the skin over the abdomen, buttocks and thighs Telangiectatic cheeks (broken capillaries) Fragile skin and poor wound healing Acne and hirsutism (excessive hair growth in women on their faces, necks, chests, abdomens and thighs) Women may also show clitoral hypertrophy and male-pattern baldness is this something that would show up on a kidney ultrasound? It could be an incidental finding as long as they included the adrenals. Lab testing is more specific for pheochromocytoma, but I would definitely recommend renal scanning anyway like the other user suggested 
  
 RiotInTheDiceFactory 
 Tue Feb 24 11:59:06 2015 UTC 
 [med student, last year, GER] To me it also looks as it could be pheochromocytoma. It's still unlikely (because rare), but it has to be checked. A picture of her would be really helpful to look for the common changes in looks under the influence of elevated corticoids, but I guess noone wants to post pictures of themselves on the web.. /u/aordaso, have you by any chance recognized any of these signs? Edit: And here is a list of the signs (in the skin) in patients with cushing's syndrome taken from dermnetnz.com Signs and symptoms appearing in the skin include: Easy bruising (purpura) and purple striae of the skin over the abdomen, buttocks and thighs Telangiectatic cheeks (broken capillaries) Fragile skin and poor wound healing Acne and hirsutism (excessive hair growth in women on their faces, necks, chests, abdomens and thighs) Women may also show clitoral hypertrophy and male-pattern baldness 
  
 aordsao 
 Tue Feb 24 03:11:49 2015 UTC 
 is this something that would show up on a kidney ultrasound? It could be an incidental finding as long as they included the adrenals. Lab testing is more specific for pheochromocytoma, but I would definitely recommend renal scanning anyway like the other user suggested 
  
 nursegreen 
 Tue Feb 24 03:50:03 2015 UTC 
 It could be an incidental finding as long as they included the adrenals. Lab testing is more specific for pheochromocytoma, but I would definitely recommend renal scanning anyway like the other user suggested 
  
 