How is it possible to die from Alzheimer's Disease? 
 TezGordon 
 Fri Mar 13 08:31:03 2015 UTC 
 I understand the disease shuts the body down, but what would be the actual literal cause of death? 
  
 Dr_Pooks 
 Fri Mar 13 09:27:46 2015 UTC 
 Mostly infections and just general failure of body systems due to atrophy, age and inability for self-care. I was taught that most dementia patients die from pneumonia or something similar, especially inpatients. Alzheimer's disease itself isn't usually the cause of death, as in, the neurodegenerative brain lesions themselves are rarely the cause. Kind of like how diabetics rarely die of high blood sugars alone (they die from kidney failure, heart attacks, strokes, sepsis, infections, amputations - all related to damage to organs from the blood sugars). If you don't eat, don't move, don't drink and just stay in bed all day, especially at 65+, you don't tend to do very well and a whole manner of other problems start appearing that can kill you. Alzheimer's is also a clinical diagnosis and cannot be confirmed until autopsy after death. So patients suffering from dementia often don't have Alzheimer's alone and often have some sort of mixed dementia (such as vascular dementia). So if you have some other underlying process causing damage to the brain like atherosclerosis or embolic lesions from a heart problem, that can often be the cause of your death as well (stroke, intracranial bleed, heart failure, heart attacks, fatal arrhythmia, etc). My grandfather died of complications of Alzheimers. He lost his memory insanely quickly and went downhill in the span of a few months. The smooth muscle in some of his major vessels stopped functioning on a basic level and he ended up with DVT that eventually led to a couple pulmonary embolisms which led to his death. Really you can never predict the complications of how Alzheimers will affect someone's body over time. Some complications are more noticeable than others, but the silent ones are the worst. 
  
 eraser-dust 
 Fri Mar 13 11:34:50 2015 UTC 
 My grandfather died of complications of Alzheimers. He lost his memory insanely quickly and went downhill in the span of a few months. The smooth muscle in some of his major vessels stopped functioning on a basic level and he ended up with DVT that eventually led to a couple pulmonary embolisms which led to his death. Really you can never predict the complications of how Alzheimers will affect someone's body over time. Some complications are more noticeable than others, but the silent ones are the worst. 
  
 Moody_Immortal_1 
 Fri Mar 13 14:11:10 2015 UTC 
 Another very large feature with later stages Dementia is the swallow ability. As the brain continues to be attacked, the ability to swallow will be impacted. This also means that saliva, other foods/drinks can get aspirated and as others have mentioned, pneumonia will prevail. 
  
 Jig5 
 Fri Mar 13 20:25:30 2015 UTC 
 Many people unfortunately forget how to swallow when they eat and even to the point that they forget how to breathe. Wow, that really sucks. I thought it was more of a brain degeneration that involved memories and such, not natural reactions. 
  
 TezGordon 
 Fri Mar 13 22:44:32 2015 UTC 
 Wow, that really sucks. I thought it was more of a brain degeneration that involved memories and such, not natural reactions. 
  
 TotesMessenger 
 Mon Mar 16 19:40:11 2015 UTC 
 This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit. [/r/mistyfront] How is it possible to die from Alzheimer's Disease? (/r/AskDocs) If you follow any of the above links, respect the rules of reddit and don't vote. (Info / Contact) 
  
 Mmedical 
 Fri Mar 13 11:40:31 2015 UTC 
 If the question is: Is Alzheimer's Dementia a terminal illness? The answer is yes. 
  
 