[F, 24] Bleeding and discharge from right nipple with small clot. Not insured, post hysterectomy (~5 years ago) 
 medicalthr0wawayyy 
 Thu Apr 2 08:41:02 2015 UTC 
 Age: 24 Sex: Female Height:5'8" Weight: between 61-65 kg Race: White (Ashkenazi Jewish - may be relevant) Duration of complaint: Smelly white, yellowish discharge for several years, bloody discharge is from today only. Location (Geographic and on body): Right breast only. Any existing relevant medical issues (if any) : Celiac disease, endometriosis, ovarian cysts, hysterectomy at 19, multiple surgeries. Current medications (if any):None. Naproxen for pain occasionally. I believe that covers the relevant information. Today I noticed that I had some dried blood from the opening of the nipple and from the side where I had a nipple piercing as a teenager. I usually have a rather smelly white discharge from both nipples that expresses when squeezed, but it has never been bloody. I squeezed the right nipple and more blood (very small amount) came out along with small clots. There was no noticeable odor but it was alarming as breast cancer and non-cancerous clots/nodes run in my family (maternal Jewish side, paternal side is mostly unknown) I performed a self breast exam, but I cannot tell either way whether what I was feeling was normal tissue or not. I had a mammogram at 16 when I was leaking copious amounts of fluid from the same breast, but nothing since then. I tried to do the exam as they instructed but I guess I don't know enough to tell the difference. I have had one live birth at 19 and shortly after I had a hysterectomy, removing all except my left ovary (cervix, uterus, right ovary are gone) I did not breastfeed. I am not on HRT or any type of medication. I have menopausal symptoms but also have the signs of a "period" each month (breast tenderness and swelling, lethargy, emotional sensitivity.) I am unsure if I am counted as post-menopausal since I still have the hormonal cycle each month, but I do have hot flashes and all of the other complaints most older women have, so I do not know if I need to be having mammograms every year. Is there anything benign that this could be? Can I wait the few months until my insurance begins or is this something I need to see someone about immediately? Is there anything I need to look out for? Thank you for your time. I appreciate it very much. I moved to a country where I do not have insurance, and won't until June at the earliest. I am currently unemployed and due to the nature of this country's health care system, I need an insurance provider to be referred to anything other than an urgent care clinic. You cannot schedule doctor appointments on your own. 
  
 CutthroatTeaser 
 Thu Apr 2 16:37:19 2015 UTC 
 Bloody discharge must be worked up to rule out cancer, especially considering your family history of breast cancer. This is not something that should wait until June. I just don't know how to go about getting it checked. I can't schedule appointments myself. My home country is too far away to return to any time soon. Go to an urgent care clinic or an emergency room if you have no other options. We're potentially talking about cancer...find a way. 
  
 medicalthr0wawayyy 
 Thu Apr 2 21:07:23 2015 UTC 
 I just don't know how to go about getting it checked. I can't schedule appointments myself. My home country is too far away to return to any time soon. Go to an urgent care clinic or an emergency room if you have no other options. We're potentially talking about cancer...find a way. 
  
 CutthroatTeaser 
 Thu Apr 2 21:58:48 2015 UTC 
 Go to an urgent care clinic or an emergency room if you have no other options. We're potentially talking about cancer...find a way. 
  
 activatetehomega13 
 Thu Apr 2 15:35:39 2015 UTC 
 Do you still have your piercings in? No, I don't. Not for quite a few years. Okay. You should see a doctor sooner than June. 
  
 medicalthr0wawayyy 
 Thu Apr 2 20:56:22 2015 UTC 
 No, I don't. Not for quite a few years. Okay. You should see a doctor sooner than June. 
  
 activatetehomega13 
 Thu Apr 2 21:16:27 2015 UTC 
 Okay. You should see a doctor sooner than June. 
  
 