Painful inguinal hernia, how is surgery? How's the outcome? Experiences welcome! 
 HerniasTotallySuck 
 Mon Apr 27 22:32:00 2015 UTC 
 I have a painful inguinal hernia that is really uncomfortable, with testicle pain and general nausea, limits activities quite a bit. It's tiny so you can't see it, a doc found with ultrasound. Anyway, I'll need surgery which I've never had before, and I'm terribly nervous as the Internet is filled with horror stories of complications. I'm debating laparoscopic with mesh, that seems to be the standard repair now for small hernias. Can anyone share their experience? What surgery type did you have? How was surgery and recovery? Did it resolve your hernia symptoms? Am I freaking out for no reason? Anything to know? Thanks! 
  
 Artica2012 
 Mon Apr 27 23:50:59 2015 UTC 
 Hernia repairs are pretty common. Talk to your surgeon about the options of laparoscopic versus an open repair. Depending on the location and the size, plus factors like age, smoking and obesity, one may be a better approach than the other. There are some potential complications, but in my experience, these are pretty rare and the vast majority of the complications are minor. As a doctor, what repair would you do if you had an inguinal hernia? and what would you recommend for a family member? Any different for a fit healthy active young active male? 
  
 HerniasTotallySuck 
 Wed Apr 29 01:07:00 2015 UTC 
 As a doctor, what repair would you do if you had an inguinal hernia? and what would you recommend for a family member? Any different for a fit healthy active young active male? 
  
 Alauer16 
 Tue Apr 28 02:21:32 2015 UTC 
 I had a laproscopic repair. It was painful standing up straight for a few days but worth the pain. Mine too was a bad hernia, so bad I would vomit. It will take a few months for it to be a thing of the past. I would still feel the tugging of the mesh and clips a year on - now 4 years removed I can say it is just a memory but takes patience. Opt for laproscopic if your surgeon prefers that technique and does that primarily. I've heard direct can have longer recoveries Thanks. What the mesh painful or just like an awareness? How soon could you resume activities like walking, running, etc? Did it resolve your symptoms? Would you do it again? How did you find your surgeon? The mesh was more of an awareness. I was able to walk after about 2-3 days but my abs were sore from the laparoscopy. I think I was running again with maybe 2 weeks just carefully but had to watch how much weight I carried for 60 days. Symptoms generally went away in a few months and just being active helped - regaining core strength was a big help I felt. I would absolutely do it again in the same scenario. I was an athlete in college and was referred to a specialist who did my procedure. I have lived in Chicago for about 10 years with a lot of good options for Dr. I had Minh Lu - again I would look for a Dr that is somewhat specialized so it's right the first time and doesn't need redone down the road. 
  
 HerniasTotallySuck 
 Wed Apr 29 01:04:50 2015 UTC 
 Thanks. What the mesh painful or just like an awareness? How soon could you resume activities like walking, running, etc? Did it resolve your symptoms? Would you do it again? How did you find your surgeon? The mesh was more of an awareness. I was able to walk after about 2-3 days but my abs were sore from the laparoscopy. I think I was running again with maybe 2 weeks just carefully but had to watch how much weight I carried for 60 days. Symptoms generally went away in a few months and just being active helped - regaining core strength was a big help I felt. I would absolutely do it again in the same scenario. I was an athlete in college and was referred to a specialist who did my procedure. I have lived in Chicago for about 10 years with a lot of good options for Dr. I had Minh Lu - again I would look for a Dr that is somewhat specialized so it's right the first time and doesn't need redone down the road. 
  
 Alauer16 
 Wed Apr 29 01:41:31 2015 UTC 
 The mesh was more of an awareness. I was able to walk after about 2-3 days but my abs were sore from the laparoscopy. I think I was running again with maybe 2 weeks just carefully but had to watch how much weight I carried for 60 days. Symptoms generally went away in a few months and just being active helped - regaining core strength was a big help I felt. I would absolutely do it again in the same scenario. I was an athlete in college and was referred to a specialist who did my procedure. I have lived in Chicago for about 10 years with a lot of good options for Dr. I had Minh Lu - again I would look for a Dr that is somewhat specialized so it's right the first time and doesn't need redone down the road. 
  
 The_Gage 
 Tue Apr 28 03:02:51 2015 UTC 
 Agree with Artica; inguinal hernia complications are relatively rare. The most common complication is what you're already experiencing: Pain. About 5 to 10% of inguinal hernia repairs result in chronic pain, which is influenced by multiple factors. Hence, we've stopped doing hernia repairs for everyone, and only offering the procedure to those people who are having a major negative impact on life because of it. Generally, most general surgeons are not going to offer a laparoscopic repair to an otherwise healthy young adult. The cost is higher, the exposure is worse, and the recurrence rate is higher in laparoscopic repairs. They're generally reserved for individuals with bilateral or recurrent hernias. But, it's surgeon's preference, and it really requires a conversation with a surgeon to truly understand the pros and cons to each method. In the end, the surgeon will recommend the procedure he or she is most comfortable with. For what it's worth, if I had a unilateral hernia, I'd get it done open. The scar is about the same size, it's faster and cheaper, and the recurrence and complication rates are low. So back to the complications: Pain. You already have pain, and it sounds like it's impacting your life quite severely. Because of this, a surgeon would be more likely to attempt to repair the hernia: If he or she leaves you with chronic pain, then you're no worse off than you were. Even so, there are multiple treatment modalities that exist for treating this complication. Again, this requires a conversation with your surgeon. I caution you in reading the horror stories online: These are individual experiences that are influenced by multiple factors. There is no way to tell, without consultation, how likely or unlikely such complications are. Thanks for the detailed reply! I was under the impression that small hernias can't be found in open repair because there is nothing to see (mine is invisible aside from imaging). Do patient symptoms usually resolve with surgery? Is there anything specific to look for or request? If it's on imaging, then it should be visible during an open surgery. Without seeing the scans, I can't be certain. But usually once the skin and tissue is out of the way, it's pretty easy to identify the abdominal wall defect. Usually, yes, the pain resolves after surgery. Again, there's about a 5 to 10% chance of persistent, chronic pain after surgery either due to neuralgia or ischemia. There's also a chance of recurrence. Serious complications are rare at or around 1%. Regarding things to ask about, see if they plan to do a local nerve block; that can help control pain. Ask the same questions you've asked here, as your surgeon's answers may be more up to date or more applicable to his or her practice. Ask about his or her results, and approximately how many of your surgeon's patients have recurrence or chronic pain. 
  
 HerniasTotallySuck 
 Wed Apr 29 01:00:32 2015 UTC 
 Thanks for the detailed reply! I was under the impression that small hernias can't be found in open repair because there is nothing to see (mine is invisible aside from imaging). Do patient symptoms usually resolve with surgery? Is there anything specific to look for or request? If it's on imaging, then it should be visible during an open surgery. Without seeing the scans, I can't be certain. But usually once the skin and tissue is out of the way, it's pretty easy to identify the abdominal wall defect. Usually, yes, the pain resolves after surgery. Again, there's about a 5 to 10% chance of persistent, chronic pain after surgery either due to neuralgia or ischemia. There's also a chance of recurrence. Serious complications are rare at or around 1%. Regarding things to ask about, see if they plan to do a local nerve block; that can help control pain. Ask the same questions you've asked here, as your surgeon's answers may be more up to date or more applicable to his or her practice. Ask about his or her results, and approximately how many of your surgeon's patients have recurrence or chronic pain. 
  
 The_Gage 
 Wed Apr 29 01:31:19 2015 UTC 
 If it's on imaging, then it should be visible during an open surgery. Without seeing the scans, I can't be certain. But usually once the skin and tissue is out of the way, it's pretty easy to identify the abdominal wall defect. Usually, yes, the pain resolves after surgery. Again, there's about a 5 to 10% chance of persistent, chronic pain after surgery either due to neuralgia or ischemia. There's also a chance of recurrence. Serious complications are rare at or around 1%. Regarding things to ask about, see if they plan to do a local nerve block; that can help control pain. Ask the same questions you've asked here, as your surgeon's answers may be more up to date or more applicable to his or her practice. Ask about his or her results, and approximately how many of your surgeon's patients have recurrence or chronic pain. 
  
 DonPoppito666 
 Tue Apr 28 10:24:02 2015 UTC 
 Actually today is my last day of medical leave for the exact same thing. Had it last Tuesday. Its not bad, about a 2 hour wait from getting to the hospital, prep and then the surgery. Your stomach and abs are sore as hell for a couple days, and your belly is swollen for a while (mine still is slightly after a week) Was given percoset though which helped. Not bad at all the worst thing is the bills. Its like they were at the water cooler and someone brought up i was having surgery and then everyone has their fucking hand out. How are you feeling now? Was yours an inguinal hernia that was symptomatic? What were your symptoms? As far as symptons there wasnt a lot other than the lump. I had felt a small pain there maybe twice in the months leading up to me actually noticing a lump. Just went to the surgeon for the last time and had the stitches removed. Still slightly sore but given the ok to go back to work with no restriction. Really everything was fine except for the financial side of it. If its making you uncomfortable and you can afford it then do it. If its not bothering then dont worry too much about it. I let mine ride for 6 months with no problems. 
  
 HerniasTotallySuck 
 Wed Apr 29 01:02:15 2015 UTC 
 How are you feeling now? Was yours an inguinal hernia that was symptomatic? What were your symptoms? As far as symptons there wasnt a lot other than the lump. I had felt a small pain there maybe twice in the months leading up to me actually noticing a lump. Just went to the surgeon for the last time and had the stitches removed. Still slightly sore but given the ok to go back to work with no restriction. Really everything was fine except for the financial side of it. If its making you uncomfortable and you can afford it then do it. If its not bothering then dont worry too much about it. I let mine ride for 6 months with no problems. 
  
 DonPoppito666 
 Wed Apr 29 19:32:31 2015 UTC 
 As far as symptons there wasnt a lot other than the lump. I had felt a small pain there maybe twice in the months leading up to me actually noticing a lump. Just went to the surgeon for the last time and had the stitches removed. Still slightly sore but given the ok to go back to work with no restriction. Really everything was fine except for the financial side of it. If its making you uncomfortable and you can afford it then do it. If its not bothering then dont worry too much about it. I let mine ride for 6 months with no problems. 
  
 