I have been coughing up blood ONLY during menstruation for the past 2 years. I have sought help numerous times only to be told nothing is wrong. 
 myaskdocsthrowaway 
 Fri May 8 16:14:36 2015 UTC 
 I'm a 27 year old Caucasian female, 5'6" and 150 pounds. I live in Oklahoma. 2 years ago, I was on my period and laid down at night to go to bed. I immediately felt like I was drowning and coughed up a handful of bright red blood. I went to the ER, where they took blood samples and did a chest x-ray. They said everything looked great and that I was healthy and discharged me with "Idiopathic Hemoptysis". The next day, I was fine, and went about my life as usual. Then, the next time I had my period, I had the sudden urge to cough and there was the blood again. Thinking they might be related, I scheduled an appointment with the "best gyno in town" according to his reviews online. I told him of my issues and he said he had never heard of hemoptysis being related to menstruation. He performed a pap smear/etc and sent me on my way. I received a post card thing in the mail saying everything was normal. A few months later, not only was I coughing up blood, but I was also having difficulty breathing, chest pain, a strange sensation like popcorn was popping in my chest (that's the only way I can think to describe it), and a severe lack of energy to the point where I felt like I could pass out at any moment. I went to the ER yet again and they did a chest x-ray, ekg, and took blood. My ekg and chest x-ray were "textbook" they said, and my bloodwork showed I was in great health. Every single month since April of 2013, I cough up blood during my period and only during that time. I have never coughed up blood at any other time. Sometimes it is just a little bit or a few streaks of bright red blood, other times it is darker and clotted and looks exactly like my period. My periods have gone from my typical 3-5 days of heavy bleeding to 1 day of extremely heavy bleeding and 1-2 days of light/almost non existent bleeding. I have not had any children. I have been pregnant once and had an abortion in July of 2012. Other than that, I have only had one other surgery and that was a tonsillectomy when I was 15. Today marks the first time that I have ever experienced this two days in a row. Usually it is just one day of my period, and it has always been on my worst/heaviest day. This time, I coughed up a tiny amount of blood last night during my extremely heavy day. And today, I am barely menstruating at all, but I am coughing up more blood. It is very dark, almost black in color, and clotted. I called to try to get seen today, but have an appointment scheduled for the 18th. I won't be experiencing any symptoms then, but I'm hoping someone will take an interest in my case instead of just writing me off as healthy and normal. Because coughing up blood 25 months in a row is not healthy or normal. Can anyone offer any insight into my situation? I am concerned that my condition may be life-threatening, and coughing up blood is a very alarming symptom to experience. I had a chest x-ray just last month due to extreme heartburn and acid reflux which has developed in the past couple of months. Once again, the chest x-ray looked fine. I am at my wits end with this. Thanks for your time. 
  
 AcuteAppendagitis 
 Fri May 8 16:56:45 2015 UTC 
 Sometimes women can have endometrial tissue outside of the uterus, inside the abdomen, that can cause symptoms during their period. I have not heard of lung manifestations of this (or even if this is possible). Would be interested to hear input from a gynecologist and/or pulmonologist on this. Either way, if you are recurrently coughing up blood and your primary care doctor has been unable to isolate the problem, you should consider seeing a pulmonary doctor (lung specialist). Edit: ER doc My thoughts exactly! I searched the web, and pulmonary endometriosis actually exists! http://www.eurjmedres.com/content/18/1/13 So I think you need to ask your doctor for a referral to a pulmonologist and get a ct of your lungs Interesting! I hope OP comes back and let's us know how it goes. Thanks so much for your response! I will request to see a pulmunologist and will definitely update you guys when I find out more. Thanks again! Agreed. Almost as interesting as the guy who sneezed out a silverfish larva! This is exactly what I came here to say. I'm glad I'm not crazy in thinking it! Thank you for finding and posting that report! It was very interesting to read and very similar to my situation, except thankfully I have never coughed up blood that many days in a row! I will ask about a ct of my lungs and I will update when I find out more about my condition. As soon as I read the title I thought the same. I have seen a patient with an endometriosis lesion in the nasopharynx causing nosebleed. How in the world does endometrial tissue get there?? It can get anywhere in the body - even your brain. I guess because the body is all connected through the different systems. 
  
 murpahurp 
 Fri May 8 17:17:59 2015 UTC 
 My thoughts exactly! I searched the web, and pulmonary endometriosis actually exists! http://www.eurjmedres.com/content/18/1/13 So I think you need to ask your doctor for a referral to a pulmonologist and get a ct of your lungs Interesting! I hope OP comes back and let's us know how it goes. Thanks so much for your response! I will request to see a pulmunologist and will definitely update you guys when I find out more. Thanks again! Agreed. Almost as interesting as the guy who sneezed out a silverfish larva! This is exactly what I came here to say. I'm glad I'm not crazy in thinking it! Thank you for finding and posting that report! It was very interesting to read and very similar to my situation, except thankfully I have never coughed up blood that many days in a row! I will ask about a ct of my lungs and I will update when I find out more about my condition. 
  
 AcuteAppendagitis 
 Fri May 8 17:31:47 2015 UTC 
 Interesting! I hope OP comes back and let's us know how it goes. Thanks so much for your response! I will request to see a pulmunologist and will definitely update you guys when I find out more. Thanks again! 
  
 myaskdocsthrowaway 
 Sat May 9 18:46:45 2015 UTC 
 Thanks so much for your response! I will request to see a pulmunologist and will definitely update you guys when I find out more. Thanks again! 
  
 Senseismic 
 Fri May 8 19:04:41 2015 UTC 
 Agreed. Almost as interesting as the guy who sneezed out a silverfish larva! 
  
 bowlofcocks 
 Fri May 8 20:06:13 2015 UTC 
 This is exactly what I came here to say. I'm glad I'm not crazy in thinking it! 
  
 myaskdocsthrowaway 
 Sat May 9 18:48:32 2015 UTC 
 Thank you for finding and posting that report! It was very interesting to read and very similar to my situation, except thankfully I have never coughed up blood that many days in a row! I will ask about a ct of my lungs and I will update when I find out more about my condition. 
  
 eureka7 
 Fri May 8 18:50:54 2015 UTC 
 As soon as I read the title I thought the same. I have seen a patient with an endometriosis lesion in the nasopharynx causing nosebleed. How in the world does endometrial tissue get there?? It can get anywhere in the body - even your brain. I guess because the body is all connected through the different systems. 
  
 deltarefund 
 Fri May 8 20:45:09 2015 UTC 
 How in the world does endometrial tissue get there?? It can get anywhere in the body - even your brain. I guess because the body is all connected through the different systems. 
  
 juswannalurkpls 
 Fri May 8 22:24:57 2015 UTC 
 It can get anywhere in the body - even your brain. I guess because the body is all connected through the different systems. 
  
 