Young person chest pain 
 Sparklingshorty94 
 Tue May 26 03:07:44 2015 UTC 
 Hey guys, I know you get plenty of questions about chest pain but, I really had to ask... I'm a 20year old female, active approx 3 times a week (running two and weight lifting the other), regular BMI (can't remember number but I know I'm in the "normal zone"), the only medical family history I have is my grandfather on my fathers side died in his 50s due to a stroke. Everyone else including my great grand parents have no history of cancers or dementia or any other genetic conditions... So I've been getting chest pain and had it check out by the doctors. They've done all the right things and I've been on pariet (an Australian PPI I'm not sure if medication has the same names in America) as well as, a chest X-ray. The chest X-ray was as clear as day (I got it done after my chest infection) with no issues and the medication for heart burn is what I've been taking daily as per instructions. I'm still have chest pain, it was intermittent at first but has progressed to quite constant today. I had a constant productive cough (suspected chest infection) for two weeks with the occasional fever that has now cleared. So I went and got my X-ray because the pain is persistent and the results were clear. I've been taking pariet daily, stayed away from alcohol and spicy food as well just in case it really was heart burn, for just over two weeks now. I could directly point to the pain, it begins where my heart is, crosses to my right (approx to before my shoulder begins and in a straight line) and ends up hurting half way down my sternum. It's a heaviness feeling (occasionally stabbing), hurts more on inspiration and after an "episode" of sorts it settles to a persistent pain over my heart. Any advice would be wonderful. Thank you very much! 
  
 violentsoho 
 Tue May 26 06:14:42 2015 UTC 
 Sounds exactly like costochondritis, brought on by the coughing from your chest infection. You don't have the right risk factors / right age group for anything serious, and you've been to the docs which means that they've ruled anything serious out. http://www.healthdirect.gov.au/costochondritis Take some paracetamol / ibuprofen for the pain. The pain should subside over the next few weeks. Thank you very much! My job is quite physically demanding, it involves stacking heavy boxes etc (I also do customer service stuff, but moving boxes and being on my feet all day is inevitable). This exacerbates the pain... Is there any tips I can have for prevent consistent pain at work? Should I get some Panadeine? Any stretches or excercises that could help with the pain? Note: If the pain is nothing too serious or contagious I don't see the point in taking time off work, especially since it may last a while.. Agree with the above. NSAIDs are good for the pain unless you've got a history of stomach ulcers. You can get ibuprofen over the counter and some places will sell you naproxen or diclofenac which are also fine. You can find more information here and a surprisingly good place to find some exercises for free is youtube. 
  
 Sparklingshorty94 
 Tue May 26 07:07:06 2015 UTC 
 Thank you very much! My job is quite physically demanding, it involves stacking heavy boxes etc (I also do customer service stuff, but moving boxes and being on my feet all day is inevitable). This exacerbates the pain... Is there any tips I can have for prevent consistent pain at work? Should I get some Panadeine? Any stretches or excercises that could help with the pain? Note: If the pain is nothing too serious or contagious I don't see the point in taking time off work, especially since it may last a while.. Agree with the above. NSAIDs are good for the pain unless you've got a history of stomach ulcers. You can get ibuprofen over the counter and some places will sell you naproxen or diclofenac which are also fine. You can find more information here and a surprisingly good place to find some exercises for free is youtube. 
  
 Chayoss 
 Tue May 26 09:10:53 2015 UTC 
 Agree with the above. NSAIDs are good for the pain unless you've got a history of stomach ulcers. You can get ibuprofen over the counter and some places will sell you naproxen or diclofenac which are also fine. You can find more information here and a surprisingly good place to find some exercises for free is youtube. 
  
 PrincesaCereza 
 Tue May 26 09:54:42 2015 UTC 
 I'm 19 and I'm in the same boat as you lol. Been to the doctor for blood tests, heart tests, couldn't find anything.. Still worried it's something they just missed but I guess you/we just gotta wait till the pain passes 
  
 