diagnosed with acute compartment syndrome 
 redpillgaybro 
 Thu Jun 4 15:46:38 2015 UTC 
 32 yo male, no medical issues except for psychiatric issues. two weeks ago I was hit by a car while crossing the street and hurt my left leg. i went ot the hospital and the x rays were negative. then a few days later I had this awful awfu l unbearable pain in my leg and it was going numb and tingly and I could barely move it at all. i went back and they diagnosed me with acute compratment syndrome or whatever. They said it was a huge medical emergency and I needed to be admitted for rapid surgery. well the hospital wouldnt let me undergo that surgery because my insurance wont cover it. So now it's four days later and my leg is still causing me so much pain. how do I manage this? Oxycodone isn't doing a damn thing. 
  
 Ulsenius 
 Thu Jun 4 15:58:04 2015 UTC 
 You have acute compartment syndrome but weren't surgically treated? That is a very serious problem. If you really a an acute compartment syndrome, you need emergency surgery. I dont even know what to do at this point. Go to the ER of another hospital? Agreed. I'm an er doc. Thats limb threatening emergency surgery no hospital can turn you away, it an emtala violation. Literally go anywhere else Go to any ER now. They can't turn you away until you are shown to be not in an emergency and are stable, unless they are transporting you somewhere to get better/specialized care, once you're as stable as possible. 
  
 redpillgaybro 
 Thu Jun 4 16:43:18 2015 UTC 
 I dont even know what to do at this point. Go to the ER of another hospital? Agreed. I'm an er doc. Thats limb threatening emergency surgery no hospital can turn you away, it an emtala violation. Literally go anywhere else Go to any ER now. They can't turn you away until you are shown to be not in an emergency and are stable, unless they are transporting you somewhere to get better/specialized care, once you're as stable as possible. 
  
 Ulsenius 
 Thu Jun 4 16:43:53 2015 UTC 
 Go to the ER of another hospital? Agreed. I'm an er doc. Thats limb threatening emergency surgery no hospital can turn you away, it an emtala violation. Literally go anywhere else 
  
 ReginaldPerry 
 Thu Jun 4 16:51:01 2015 UTC 
 Agreed. I'm an er doc. Thats limb threatening emergency surgery no hospital can turn you away, it an emtala violation. Literally go anywhere else 
  
 connormxy 
 Thu Jun 4 18:59:25 2015 UTC 
 Go to any ER now. They can't turn you away until you are shown to be not in an emergency and are stable, unless they are transporting you somewhere to get better/specialized care, once you're as stable as possible. 
  
 kero584 
 Thu Jun 4 16:56:44 2015 UTC 
 I am uncertain which country you live in but in America there are laws which mandate that hospitals have to treat all emergent situations regardless of reimbursement potential... this being said you could go to a different hospital since it seems that you have left that one. If you had acute compartment syndrome several weeks ago, I think your leg would be turning black at this point and the tissue would be dying. Please do go to an ER (perhaps a different ER) immediately to get checked out. 
  
 