Drinking too much water 
 Mirean 
 Thu Jun 4 21:45:32 2015 UTC 
 Short info: 20, male, 190cm (6"2' - 6"3'), 120kg (260lbs) Lately, I have been drinking quite a lot of water - I can't stop it, I am thirsty all the time. What do I mean by "a lot"? Well, on average day, it's around 5 liters, but when I have sore throat, it can be even 8-10 liters. Is there any risk? I know that water intoxication is a thing, but I don't feel any of the symptoms - no headaches, no vomitting. Thanks 
  
 TacoDoc 
 Thu Jun 4 22:14:34 2015 UTC 
 I wouldn't be worried about the effects of drinking a lot of water; rather, the underlying cause for the thirst. Have you had your blood sugar tested? Diabetes indicators include heavy thirst and frequent urination. No, I haven't - I am thinking about donating blood/plasma, will they check it there or do I have to go see a doctor? I don't really know as I'm not a doctor nor have I donated blood. I'd guess that that wouldn't be a standards test though unless specifically requested from a doctor. Sorry I am not more help. 
  
 Mirean 
 Thu Jun 4 22:20:54 2015 UTC 
 No, I haven't - I am thinking about donating blood/plasma, will they check it there or do I have to go see a doctor? I don't really know as I'm not a doctor nor have I donated blood. I'd guess that that wouldn't be a standards test though unless specifically requested from a doctor. Sorry I am not more help. 
  
 TacoDoc 
 Thu Jun 4 22:42:36 2015 UTC 
 I don't really know as I'm not a doctor nor have I donated blood. I'd guess that that wouldn't be a standards test though unless specifically requested from a doctor. Sorry I am not more help. 
  
 Chayoss 
 Thu Jun 4 22:07:57 2015 UTC 
 Any other symptoms? Urinating more frequently? Abdominal pain? Yes, I am urinating much more frequently (6-7 times per day on average), but I think that is to be expected. No pain that I know of. How long has this been going on for? Any change in your appetite? Anything like unusual fatigue, changes in your vision, etc? I don't know precisely, but definitely few months. I am also having sleep issues - I can only sleep 5-6 hours, even if I'm tired. And vision - it is getting worse (sometimes I can't focus properly), but I don't think this is connected because I am having vision issues for far longer. Well, my general thrust is what /u/TacoDoc was mentioning - the possibility of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes can present in young adults with increased thirst, vision problems, etc. It's a quick test to do in the clinic so it might be worth booking an appointment rather soon for that. I don't know what country you're in but if you're in the UK, you can ring the GP surgery as soon as they open tomorrow morning and book in for tomorrow afternoon. so I have listened to your advice and went to see a doctor and my blood tests came out negative...I am glad that I don't have diabetes, but what else could be causing this? 
  
 Mirean 
 Thu Jun 4 22:11:38 2015 UTC 
 Yes, I am urinating much more frequently (6-7 times per day on average), but I think that is to be expected. No pain that I know of. How long has this been going on for? Any change in your appetite? Anything like unusual fatigue, changes in your vision, etc? I don't know precisely, but definitely few months. I am also having sleep issues - I can only sleep 5-6 hours, even if I'm tired. And vision - it is getting worse (sometimes I can't focus properly), but I don't think this is connected because I am having vision issues for far longer. Well, my general thrust is what /u/TacoDoc was mentioning - the possibility of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes can present in young adults with increased thirst, vision problems, etc. It's a quick test to do in the clinic so it might be worth booking an appointment rather soon for that. I don't know what country you're in but if you're in the UK, you can ring the GP surgery as soon as they open tomorrow morning and book in for tomorrow afternoon. so I have listened to your advice and went to see a doctor and my blood tests came out negative...I am glad that I don't have diabetes, but what else could be causing this? 
  
 Chayoss 
 Thu Jun 4 22:13:57 2015 UTC 
 How long has this been going on for? Any change in your appetite? Anything like unusual fatigue, changes in your vision, etc? I don't know precisely, but definitely few months. I am also having sleep issues - I can only sleep 5-6 hours, even if I'm tired. And vision - it is getting worse (sometimes I can't focus properly), but I don't think this is connected because I am having vision issues for far longer. Well, my general thrust is what /u/TacoDoc was mentioning - the possibility of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes can present in young adults with increased thirst, vision problems, etc. It's a quick test to do in the clinic so it might be worth booking an appointment rather soon for that. I don't know what country you're in but if you're in the UK, you can ring the GP surgery as soon as they open tomorrow morning and book in for tomorrow afternoon. so I have listened to your advice and went to see a doctor and my blood tests came out negative...I am glad that I don't have diabetes, but what else could be causing this? 
  
 Mirean 
 Thu Jun 4 22:19:33 2015 UTC 
 I don't know precisely, but definitely few months. I am also having sleep issues - I can only sleep 5-6 hours, even if I'm tired. And vision - it is getting worse (sometimes I can't focus properly), but I don't think this is connected because I am having vision issues for far longer. Well, my general thrust is what /u/TacoDoc was mentioning - the possibility of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes can present in young adults with increased thirst, vision problems, etc. It's a quick test to do in the clinic so it might be worth booking an appointment rather soon for that. I don't know what country you're in but if you're in the UK, you can ring the GP surgery as soon as they open tomorrow morning and book in for tomorrow afternoon. so I have listened to your advice and went to see a doctor and my blood tests came out negative...I am glad that I don't have diabetes, but what else could be causing this? 
  
 Chayoss 
 Thu Jun 4 22:21:18 2015 UTC 
 Well, my general thrust is what /u/TacoDoc was mentioning - the possibility of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes can present in young adults with increased thirst, vision problems, etc. It's a quick test to do in the clinic so it might be worth booking an appointment rather soon for that. I don't know what country you're in but if you're in the UK, you can ring the GP surgery as soon as they open tomorrow morning and book in for tomorrow afternoon. so I have listened to your advice and went to see a doctor and my blood tests came out negative...I am glad that I don't have diabetes, but what else could be causing this? 
  
 Mirean 
 Wed Jun 10 08:23:37 2015 UTC 
 so I have listened to your advice and went to see a doctor and my blood tests came out negative...I am glad that I don't have diabetes, but what else could be causing this? 
  
 redditboron 
 Mon Jun 8 14:25:28 2015 UTC 
 If you try to drink only 2-3 liters of water per day (or whatever you had considered appropriate before) and, within 1-2 days, you notice you are starting to lose weight, it means you are probably losing excessive amounts of water through the urine (due to diabetes mellitus or diabetes insipidus...). If you are not starting to lose weight, it means you are "only" excesively thirsty, in which case, excessive urination would be a result of excessive drinking. 
  
 Imallvol7 
 Fri Jun 5 00:40:26 2015 UTC 
 http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diabetes_insipidus Diabetes insipidus: Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a condition characterized by excessive thirst and excretion of large amounts of severely dilute urine, with reduction of fluid intake having no effect on the concentration of the urine. There are different types of DI, each with a different set of causes. The most common type in humans is the neurological form, called Central DI (CDI), which involves a deficiency of arginine vasopressin (AVP), also known as antidiuretic hormone (ADH). The second common type of DI is nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), which is due to kidney or nephron dysfunction caused by an insensitivity of the kidneys or nephrons to ADH. DI can also be gestational, or caused by alcohol or some types of drug abuse. DI should not be confused with nocturia. Image i Interesting: Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus | Neurogenic diabetes insipidus | Arginine vasopressin receptor 2 | Aquaporin 2 Parent commenter can toggle NSFW or delete. Will also delete on comment score of -1 or less. | FAQs | Mods | Magic Words Probably not DI but DM. 
  
 autowikibot 
 Fri Jun 5 00:41:00 2015 UTC 
 Diabetes insipidus: Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a condition characterized by excessive thirst and excretion of large amounts of severely dilute urine, with reduction of fluid intake having no effect on the concentration of the urine. There are different types of DI, each with a different set of causes. The most common type in humans is the neurological form, called Central DI (CDI), which involves a deficiency of arginine vasopressin (AVP), also known as antidiuretic hormone (ADH). The second common type of DI is nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), which is due to kidney or nephron dysfunction caused by an insensitivity of the kidneys or nephrons to ADH. DI can also be gestational, or caused by alcohol or some types of drug abuse. DI should not be confused with nocturia. Image i Interesting: Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus | Neurogenic diabetes insipidus | Arginine vasopressin receptor 2 | Aquaporin 2 Parent commenter can toggle NSFW or delete. Will also delete on comment score of -1 or less. | FAQs | Mods | Magic Words 
  
 Chayoss 
 Fri Jun 5 09:43:01 2015 UTC 
 Probably not DI but DM. 
  
 