Pericarditis self help/relief questions 
 crypticfreak 
 Thu Jul 16 05:09:36 2015 UTC 
 Age: 21 Sex: Male Height: 71 inches (5 foot 11 inches) Weight: 146lbs Race: Caucasian Duration of complaint: Three days Location: (Geographic and on body): Chest, heart, back (the area directly behind the heart/lungs) Any existing relevant medical issues (if any): Pericarditis was diagnosed roughly seven months ago. The doctor was stumped how I got it again so quickly. I WAS diagnosed a second time this morning. -allergies: Sulfonamide/sulfa drugs, diphenhydramine, and dextromethorphan. Current medications (if any): Colchicine 0.6mg One tablet, by mouth twice daily (with food). Naproxen 500mg One tablet, by mouth twice daily. Tramadol inner-muscular (unknown dosage) at roughly 1:00pm central time. I'm going to keep this short. I was diagnosed with the above, and am seeking some kind of at home remedy. The internet is giving me conflicting results, and the general consensus is to seek professional help. I have already done that. The problem is that I'm a former IV heroin addict of 10 years, so when I was at the hospital I declined any kind of opiate prescription. I did not take dilaudid, however was given IM Tramadol (I don't remember the dosage). Professing my history with drugs to the doctor made it so I was given nothing other than the Colchicine and Ibuprofin, however I'm in a lot of pain. I was advised to sleep upright, which is nearly impossible for me to do on a regular day. My major complaint is that I want to sleep but cannot. It's extremely painful to lay down, and while sitting is more comfortable, it's still not all that pleasant. So my question to you guys is: what should I do at home to minimize pain? Do you think I should go back into the hospital and ask for something less addicting, like Hydroxyzine or Clonidine, or is that just a bad idea in general? All I really care about is reducing the pain enough for me to fall asleep, I don't need (nor am seeking) medication. If it can be done without, I'd be a lot happier. 
  
 balaster 
 Thu Jul 16 08:01:22 2015 UTC 
 Started IV heroin at the age of 11? I'm sorry you were dealt that hand, man. But to answer your question: You're taking more than enough meds. You won't get morphine for pericarditis, previous addict or not- at least not as an outpatient. However, if you're still in pain with the meds you're taking, inpatient care is indicated. What I'm saying is...go to the hospital. You're not an outpatient case if your pain isn't under control. Also, you need lab work to find the cause of your pericarditis. Finding out the underlying cause is very important and it shouldn't be simply shrugged off as pericarditis...especially now that it's the second time you've had it. Good luck. Very sound advice. Thanks for your advise. I should have clarify that I started using oxycodone at 11, not heroin. The heroin use is 4 years old, however. And I'm about half a year plus clean. My timeline is also kind of a guesstimate, it's not perfect. Maybe more like 9 years total. 
  
 rough_sleepr 
 Thu Jul 16 09:11:14 2015 UTC 
 Very sound advice. 
  
 crypticfreak 
 Thu Jul 16 16:50:38 2015 UTC 
 Thanks for your advise. I should have clarify that I started using oxycodone at 11, not heroin. The heroin use is 4 years old, however. And I'm about half a year plus clean. My timeline is also kind of a guesstimate, it's not perfect. Maybe more like 9 years total. 
  
 GeneDoc 
 Thu Jul 16 10:46:30 2015 UTC 
 If/when you are honest about not using narcotics, my experience is that most doctors won't hassle you about your history and will applaud your honesty, regardless of what drugs you did. Also, knowing your history may make me more cautious to widen the differential to include possible infections from IV drug abuse. Pain control in this setting, if not alleviated by naprosyn, can be achieved by steroids (e.g. prednisone). It's very rare that I reach for narcotics in this setting. However, the use of steroids is frowned upon as it is thought to increase recurrence rates of the pericarditis. So, you will need to have a discussion with your cardiologist about if your symptoms are so bad that you need more relief and are willing to risk the chance it could come back. Some patients simply know that they will get periodic episodes of chest pain only relieved with short courses of prednisone and get to a point where they take 5-7 days every couple-few years. It is very common that we cannot find a cause of the pericarditis, so do not worry if you cannot find the cause. I would say it's the vast majority of time that we have no idea what causes pericarditis, with most episodes attributed to a viral infection (e.g. recent colds can be a clue). As a cardiologist, there are only a few labs I'll run to look into the cause of pericarditis (e.g. thyroid and lupus). Lab work is frequently of little use in finding the etiology. There may be an academic benefit to looking for viral titres or looking at immunoglobulins, but in the end doesn't truly change the outcome and spends a lot of your money. I would consider if a transesophageal echocardiogram is necessary with your history of IV drug abuse and potential infection. I would also want to consider a chest CT scan. Hopefully you have a cardiologist involved at this point. Good luck! Last time I had this they gave me prednisone, but it was only for a small amount of time. Is it a good idea for me to go on a steroid that powerful If I've already been on it (especially whiten the past 8 months to a year)? I have been feeling ill lately, and even my doctor said that prior illness was most likely the cause. So, your advise overall is to involve my cardiologist, and then go in for the echo and CT scan? That sounds good, I'm going to be going back today. Short courses of prednisone (e.g. 7-10 days), when used rarely, can be safe enough to consider. If you have used prednisone, that may be playing a role in recurrence and the recurrence may only be treated by prednisone. I'm biased and think a cardiologist should be involved. As for more testing, the cardiologist may determine enough has been done. However, again, I'm biased and would want a cardiologist involved. 
  
 crypticfreak 
 Thu Jul 16 16:54:17 2015 UTC 
 Last time I had this they gave me prednisone, but it was only for a small amount of time. Is it a good idea for me to go on a steroid that powerful If I've already been on it (especially whiten the past 8 months to a year)? I have been feeling ill lately, and even my doctor said that prior illness was most likely the cause. So, your advise overall is to involve my cardiologist, and then go in for the echo and CT scan? That sounds good, I'm going to be going back today. Short courses of prednisone (e.g. 7-10 days), when used rarely, can be safe enough to consider. If you have used prednisone, that may be playing a role in recurrence and the recurrence may only be treated by prednisone. I'm biased and think a cardiologist should be involved. As for more testing, the cardiologist may determine enough has been done. However, again, I'm biased and would want a cardiologist involved. 
  
 GeneDoc 
 Fri Jul 17 02:25:00 2015 UTC 
 Short courses of prednisone (e.g. 7-10 days), when used rarely, can be safe enough to consider. If you have used prednisone, that may be playing a role in recurrence and the recurrence may only be treated by prednisone. I'm biased and think a cardiologist should be involved. As for more testing, the cardiologist may determine enough has been done. However, again, I'm biased and would want a cardiologist involved. 
  
 frizoid 
 Thu Jul 16 13:02:21 2015 UTC 
 I have also been recently diagnosed with my 2nd case of pericarditis, my last one was just over a year ago. I too have been struggling with the pain as I have had it for 3 weeks now. I've just had an echocardiogram to see if they can find out any issues that may make me more prone to it. I was originally on colchicine prescribed to me for 5 days from the hospital as well as 250mg naproxen twice a day which got upped to 500mg by my doctor after the colchicine prescription ran out, I was taking 50mg of slow release tramadol already twice a day for knee pain so I was told to keep taking that. My doctor has upped my dose of slow release tramadol to 100mg twice a day as I was still really struggling and I have found that has helped me get at least a few hours sleep together so it might be worth considering? With it being slow release you don't get the immediate "high" effect and then the crash when it stops wearing off so it may be of benefit with your history, I understand you not wanting to go down that route but if you don't get rest you can't heal as well. Ultram/Tramadol might not be the best thing for me as it's an opioid. I have memories of abusing ultram, and even though it's not a very powerful drug, I would most likely try to abuse it. It's just part of having an addiction. I don't want to feel that way or find myself swallowing an entire bottle of the trams. Right now I'm considering talking to my doctor about alternatives to opiates/opioids such as the medicine listed above. Gabapentin is also something I want to bring up. However, if steroids will work better then I'll try the prednisone. Thank you for your advise! I have been prescribed Nefopam in the past when I got tired of taking tramadol due to the dizziness and night terrors, as far as I am aware this is not opiate based and as a bonus your urine goes a lovely pink colour! It may just be worth a try, its a pretty old fashioned drug so I'm not sure of the availability in other countries. 
  
 crypticfreak 
 Thu Jul 16 16:58:04 2015 UTC 
 Ultram/Tramadol might not be the best thing for me as it's an opioid. I have memories of abusing ultram, and even though it's not a very powerful drug, I would most likely try to abuse it. It's just part of having an addiction. I don't want to feel that way or find myself swallowing an entire bottle of the trams. Right now I'm considering talking to my doctor about alternatives to opiates/opioids such as the medicine listed above. Gabapentin is also something I want to bring up. However, if steroids will work better then I'll try the prednisone. Thank you for your advise! I have been prescribed Nefopam in the past when I got tired of taking tramadol due to the dizziness and night terrors, as far as I am aware this is not opiate based and as a bonus your urine goes a lovely pink colour! It may just be worth a try, its a pretty old fashioned drug so I'm not sure of the availability in other countries. 
  
 frizoid 
 Thu Jul 16 20:49:04 2015 UTC 
 I have been prescribed Nefopam in the past when I got tired of taking tramadol due to the dizziness and night terrors, as far as I am aware this is not opiate based and as a bonus your urine goes a lovely pink colour! It may just be worth a try, its a pretty old fashioned drug so I'm not sure of the availability in other countries. 
  
 Senseismic 
 Thu Jul 16 15:56:00 2015 UTC 
 Many congratulations for getting off the heroin-you should be applauded by your peers and your doctors for your honesty. Let me be one of both to offer my congrats. I found this interesting review article on pain issues in recovering addicts (I hope you don't mind using that time) which basically says: treat the pain, regardless of what the history is. I've heard doctors talk about this, however my concern is that I know myself. Ironically I was attempting to get clean last time I was diagnosed with Pericarditis, and the diluadid made me relapse. Granted, I was only a month into being clean, and this time I'm more like half a year. I just don't want to allow myself to feel 'high'. I'm sure my tolerance is so low that even 5mg of vicodin would get me high. A part of me is hitting myself saying that I should have just taken the morphine and diluadid they were talking about, while the other part is saying that I did a good thing by not taking it. Again, my biggest concern is getting to sleep. I'm going to be going in today as per advised in this thread, and discussing alternatives to pain relief. Hopefully the pain can be managed without opiates, and something can be given to me for sleep at night time. The pain during the day is 'ok' but it's impossible for me to sleep sitting up and it's very uncomfortable... as a result I'm exhausted right now. Thanks for the link, though. It was an interesting read! 
  
 crypticfreak 
 Thu Jul 16 17:02:13 2015 UTC 
 I've heard doctors talk about this, however my concern is that I know myself. Ironically I was attempting to get clean last time I was diagnosed with Pericarditis, and the diluadid made me relapse. Granted, I was only a month into being clean, and this time I'm more like half a year. I just don't want to allow myself to feel 'high'. I'm sure my tolerance is so low that even 5mg of vicodin would get me high. A part of me is hitting myself saying that I should have just taken the morphine and diluadid they were talking about, while the other part is saying that I did a good thing by not taking it. Again, my biggest concern is getting to sleep. I'm going to be going in today as per advised in this thread, and discussing alternatives to pain relief. Hopefully the pain can be managed without opiates, and something can be given to me for sleep at night time. The pain during the day is 'ok' but it's impossible for me to sleep sitting up and it's very uncomfortable... as a result I'm exhausted right now. Thanks for the link, though. It was an interesting read! 
  
 