Fibromyalgia pain relief without serious narcotics 
 havewesexed 
 Thu Jul 23 02:22:37 2015 UTC 
 So I'm a 30 yr old female. I'm 5'5", 150 lbs, native american. Not much of that is relevant but that's fine. What is relevant is that I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia when I was 19, right after I had my daughter. It's become rather aggressive and "mutated" as my doctor put it. I was in pain management for ages because it's at a point that my doctor has hit a wall. Recently I had a young lady that I considered to be a close friend steal some of those pain meds. Unable to get refilled for a week, I went into withdraw. It was the worst thing I've ever had happen. It has more or less put me off being on opiates anymore if possible. However, the pain is horrific. By the end of the day I can barely walk without crying and some days start that way and stay like that all day. My knees, hips, shoulders and neck are the worst. I do my physical therapy stuff and then daily activities like work and groceries and whatever nonsense my daughter has going on, but nothing outside what I know I can take. The question is this: are there any ways to relieve some of the unrelenting pain? My best friend manages a health and wellness store, so he has been talking to all his reps and bringing home armfuls of random supplements and stuff, but I thought I'd ask you guys/ladies if you had some tips. Edit: I should have specified that I have tried all the fibromyalgia approved treatments that are on the market. Nothing worked and opiates were a last resort. 
  
 Soap009 
 Thu Jul 23 04:40:44 2015 UTC 
 There are other options that are not opioids or opiates. Certain antidepressants have been studied for fibro myalgias as well as medications for nerve pain like gabapentin or Lyrica. These could be some options to talk with your doctor about. Also another good thing is exercising, may seem hard at the moment but once you can get some of the pain under control that helps a lot. Start low and work your way up slowly. 
  
 murpahurp 
 Thu Jul 23 12:47:04 2015 UTC 
 In addition to all the medication advice given here (which I do not all support, given the limited evidence for some of the treatments suggested here) I'd like to add cognitive behavioral therapy, which has been proven to be effective in fibromyalgia. This may sound odd as pain therapy, but a lot of fibro problems come from a lack of balance between rest, activities and your own thoughts of what you should be doing. In addition, painkillers can mask your physical limitations, which can lead to more pain in the long run. I agree the best thing is cbt and exercise actually but it seems like she has been evaluated enough that she was placed on opioids. You really wouldn't be open to medications? Hope this doesn't come off as confrontational, honestly just curious. I was aiming at the medicinal marijuana suggestions. There is a lack of proper evidence for its effectiveness, yet the side effects and risks are sometimes quite severe Oh, ok then I absolutely agree :) it seems to be the band wagon answer for anything pain or seizure related these days and glad to see a level headed answer to it. 
  
 Soap009 
 Thu Jul 23 15:23:32 2015 UTC 
 I agree the best thing is cbt and exercise actually but it seems like she has been evaluated enough that she was placed on opioids. You really wouldn't be open to medications? Hope this doesn't come off as confrontational, honestly just curious. I was aiming at the medicinal marijuana suggestions. There is a lack of proper evidence for its effectiveness, yet the side effects and risks are sometimes quite severe Oh, ok then I absolutely agree :) it seems to be the band wagon answer for anything pain or seizure related these days and glad to see a level headed answer to it. 
  
 murpahurp 
 Thu Jul 23 16:09:20 2015 UTC 
 I was aiming at the medicinal marijuana suggestions. There is a lack of proper evidence for its effectiveness, yet the side effects and risks are sometimes quite severe Oh, ok then I absolutely agree :) it seems to be the band wagon answer for anything pain or seizure related these days and glad to see a level headed answer to it. 
  
 Soap009 
 Thu Jul 23 16:34:18 2015 UTC 
 Oh, ok then I absolutely agree :) it seems to be the band wagon answer for anything pain or seizure related these days and glad to see a level headed answer to it. 
  
 Bapple9 
 Thu Jul 23 05:30:26 2015 UTC 
 Marijuana is a perfect medication for this. You can get a medical card in most states for this as well, but you will need to research the legality of it where you live It does help a lot, but alas is not legal in the state of texas. Oh lovely Texas, probably the last state it will become legal in unfortunately. Best of luck to you, I hope you find relief! 
  
 havewesexed 
 Thu Jul 23 13:20:33 2015 UTC 
 It does help a lot, but alas is not legal in the state of texas. Oh lovely Texas, probably the last state it will become legal in unfortunately. Best of luck to you, I hope you find relief! 
  
 Bapple9 
 Thu Jul 23 16:28:19 2015 UTC 
 Oh lovely Texas, probably the last state it will become legal in unfortunately. Best of luck to you, I hope you find relief! 
  
 ShadNuke 
 Thu Jul 23 08:51:13 2015 UTC 
 Duloxetine (Cymbalta) works for my vasculitis pain, which is related to my Rheumatoid arthritis. Marijuana is touch and go for me, personally, but it all depends on which type, whether it be sativa or indica. Sativa strains amplify my pain, while the other relieves it. But like all medications, what works for one, may not work for another. 
  
 jmglee87three 
 Thu Jul 23 15:03:35 2015 UTC 
 If you're looking for a non-pharmaceutical treatment, aerobic exercise and cognitive behavioral therapy have the best evidence supporting them for treating the pain caused by fibromyalgia. Some other therapies such as massage, muscle strength training, acupuncture, and spa therapy also have some moderate research supporting their use for fibromyalgia. I wish you the best of luck. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
  
 Slatters-AU 
 Thu Jul 23 04:00:46 2015 UTC 
 I'm in a similar position. If I stop taking medication the pain is unbearable. But I'm not sure if the pain is the fibro or the withdrawals. I've tried magnesium, fish oil, various herbal things. Nothing really seems to help. If I'm having a 'bad fibro day' the only thing I find helps is sleeping. I feel like I cannot get warm and that I just HAVE to sleep. Then I might be fine for weeks or months ( as long as I'm taking the pain relief every day) and then out of nowhere I'll have a day or a few days of pain and the urgent need for sleep and like I just cannot get warm. I feel like I'm flexing every muscle in my calves, forearms, back, hands. I find it seems worse in cold weather. I try and explain to people what it is and they just look at me like I'm crazy. I'm a 33 y.o male and some days I feel like I'm 1000. I have no answers for you but I just wanted to say I can relate to how you feel. I hate being on narcotics. I know on the really bad days if I just double my dose I'll feel great, but then i won't have enough left for the rest of the month. I've learnt to never ever skip a day. I hope someone has some advice for you. I'd love to hear it. 
  
 