My wife has been having serious stomach pains and cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea... they (hospital and PCP) are calling it IBS but we think it's something more. Can somebody please help us and tell us what our next steps should be? 
 chendoguy 
 Fri Aug 7 12:30:28 2015 UTC 
 We've been to different hospitals/doctors so many times now, it's frustrating and expensive because we leave without any answers. My wife is missing so much work (she's now on FMLA) but we're losing so much income because of it Female, 34, 133.6lbs (she lost 10lbs), 5ft5in, caucasian, Midwest US, stomach region (center, left and right)- her stomach gets bloated and looks like she's pregnant and her stomach is hard and tender (this happens anytime- not just after eating) She has nausea, vomitting, diarrhea, constipation, acid reflux, pain at the bottom of her rib cage. Every time we go to the ER, they'll give her some meds for the pain and maybe take an X-Ray or Cat Scan and then tell her it's IBS and to eat gluten free. She's been eating a strict Gluten free/IBS diets for a month and it's not getting better. The last time we went to the ER (4 weeks ago), they scheduled her with a new gastroenterologist and was scheduled to see him a week ago but they called her and told her that he does not feel he needs to see her to give her a second opinion- this happened 10 minutes after she walked out of her original gastroenterologist who told her that since she is going to be seen by another gastroenterologist, she doesn't want to do anything with her. She called her original gastroenterologist after she got the call telling her she won't be seen by the other one- but she won't be able to be seen until September 23rd. She had a colonoscopy in June of this year and nothing was found Last year she had these same issues and after going back and forth to different doctors, they determined it was her gall bladder and they removed it- after they did, most of her issues went away (vomiting, upset stomach) but then they slowly came back and are back with a vengeance Last year, they gave her an endoscopy and found a 1/2 centimeter hiatal hernia but weren't/aren't concerned about it. She did not have an endoscopy this year Her white blood count has been at an 11 since last year but the doctors weren't/aren't concerned about it Every once in a while, she'll poop blood (fresh blood most of the time) (doctors weren't/aren't concerned) (Have a picture if needed) They found a cyst on her ovary the last time we were at the ER and it popped about 2 weeks ago She smokes cigarettes (a pack a day since she was 14) (she has patches to help her quit but she's scared to use them right now because she uses the cigarets as a crutch to help her calm down) She smokes marijuana daily and it helps with the pain but doesn't take it away EDIT: She was tested for celiac disease and came back negative Meds she's currently on: Hydroxyzine Pamoate 25MG 1 capsule 3x's/day Ondansetron ODT 4MG Tabs 1 tablet every 8 hours as needed Clonazepam 1MG Tab. Take 1 tablet at night for sleep Ranitidine 150MG tabs. I tablet 2x's/day She takes cough medicine (OTC) at night to prevent her from coughing in the middle of the night Align (OTC) Centrum (OTC) We are at our wits end right now. I am dying inside because I can't help her. I see her suffering and there isn't anything I can do to take this pain away. This is why I am coming to you and hopefully, somebody can shed some light or even give us direction on how to get treatment ASAP. Do we go to the ER and tell them we want certain tests that weren't done before? Do we have to wait it out until her next appointment with the gastroenterologist in over a month? Please help 
  
 Ebonyks 
 Fri Aug 7 17:35:46 2015 UTC 
 A lot of patients react in horror when asked this question, but has your wife tried taking either tricyclic antidepressants or cymbalta? While the issue is not depression, the same drugs impact the perception of pain and are actually the most effective drugs at treating abdominal pain which exists without functional deficits. The problem with your wife is that there simply aren't a lot of other conditions that her symptoms could point to. Inflammatory bowel disease, such as crohn's or ulcerative colitis would have been identified in an earlier endoscopy/colonoscopy. If it was liver or pancreatic, it would have shown up on a metabolic panel, which I can only assume was normal. The other problem is that Irritable bowel syndrome is not a concrete disease. It is a cluster of symptoms which cause pain and disruption of gastric function without organic cause. If it's any consolation to you, I suffer from IBS myself. Part of the reason why it's so difficult to treat is that no one is able to clearly identify what the problem is, it just gets thrown into the bucket of IBS because it doesn't fit any clearer diagnosis. I understand that it is intensely frustrating to be in your situation, I have been there myself. GI doesn't seem to want to have much to do with IBS, particularly treatment resistant IBS, because good outcomes are not as easy as taking a pill. It requires patience, and the willingness to work with a variety of treatments, including careful analysis of diet to discover potential allergens. Probiotics may be worth trying as well. There's limited high-level evidence about the benefits of different probiotic products, i've personally found hyperbiotics to be the most effective, but you should experiment yourself. Another disease state associated with IBS to ask about is Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. 
  
 amifufu 
 Fri Aug 7 13:05:40 2015 UTC 
 'IBS' has been shown to be associated with people having some sort of psychological issue, figures range from 66-90%. Things like stress, anxiety and depression can cause it to flare up and then go away once the issue resolves. Help her manage her stress by exploring avenues like counselling and things like that. Peppermint oil, weight loss and SSRIs are something to look into since its affecting her quality of life. Also, simethicone - disflatyl which is OTC would help greatly with the bloating and the cramping. I forgot one of the other symptoms she has is fever. She averages 2-3/week- low grade fevers in the 99's. Is that still a symptom of IBS? What are the chances it could be something else- i.e. Stomach cancer? C difficile maybe? You should get her on probiotics pills eaten with her food? Fever is not a symptom of ibs. Did she have a course of antibiotics before she started getting these symptoms? She's usually on antibiotics at least one time a year for sinus infections and bronchitis, so I'm sure she did take some before the symptoms- what are you thinking? Clostridium difficile. It's a bacteria thatll replace your natural gut bacteria when it gets killed by antibiotics. It causes vomiting and fever and diarrhea. You can treat it with probiotics, which are pills with harmless normal gut bacteria. Could also try yogurt if she's not lactose intolerant. They have a new treatment for c difficile where they transplant poo from someone with a healthy gut biome and apparently it's 90% effective at treating it. I am not a doctor. Given her frequent use of antibiotics, it just seems like the most likely problem. No, not a bad thought, but she does not have c. diff colitis with normal CT scans and colonoscopy and a white count of 11. Temp of 99 is normal, not a fever. Thanks Doc! 
  
 chendoguy 
 Fri Aug 7 13:22:15 2015 UTC 
 I forgot one of the other symptoms she has is fever. She averages 2-3/week- low grade fevers in the 99's. Is that still a symptom of IBS? What are the chances it could be something else- i.e. Stomach cancer? C difficile maybe? You should get her on probiotics pills eaten with her food? Fever is not a symptom of ibs. Did she have a course of antibiotics before she started getting these symptoms? She's usually on antibiotics at least one time a year for sinus infections and bronchitis, so I'm sure she did take some before the symptoms- what are you thinking? Clostridium difficile. It's a bacteria thatll replace your natural gut bacteria when it gets killed by antibiotics. It causes vomiting and fever and diarrhea. You can treat it with probiotics, which are pills with harmless normal gut bacteria. Could also try yogurt if she's not lactose intolerant. They have a new treatment for c difficile where they transplant poo from someone with a healthy gut biome and apparently it's 90% effective at treating it. I am not a doctor. Given her frequent use of antibiotics, it just seems like the most likely problem. No, not a bad thought, but she does not have c. diff colitis with normal CT scans and colonoscopy and a white count of 11. Temp of 99 is normal, not a fever. Thanks Doc! 
  
 TheAkashicRecord 
 Fri Aug 7 14:39:20 2015 UTC 
 C difficile maybe? You should get her on probiotics pills eaten with her food? Fever is not a symptom of ibs. Did she have a course of antibiotics before she started getting these symptoms? She's usually on antibiotics at least one time a year for sinus infections and bronchitis, so I'm sure she did take some before the symptoms- what are you thinking? Clostridium difficile. It's a bacteria thatll replace your natural gut bacteria when it gets killed by antibiotics. It causes vomiting and fever and diarrhea. You can treat it with probiotics, which are pills with harmless normal gut bacteria. Could also try yogurt if she's not lactose intolerant. They have a new treatment for c difficile where they transplant poo from someone with a healthy gut biome and apparently it's 90% effective at treating it. I am not a doctor. Given her frequent use of antibiotics, it just seems like the most likely problem. No, not a bad thought, but she does not have c. diff colitis with normal CT scans and colonoscopy and a white count of 11. Temp of 99 is normal, not a fever. Thanks Doc! 
  
 chendoguy 
 Fri Aug 7 14:54:51 2015 UTC 
 She's usually on antibiotics at least one time a year for sinus infections and bronchitis, so I'm sure she did take some before the symptoms- what are you thinking? Clostridium difficile. It's a bacteria thatll replace your natural gut bacteria when it gets killed by antibiotics. It causes vomiting and fever and diarrhea. You can treat it with probiotics, which are pills with harmless normal gut bacteria. Could also try yogurt if she's not lactose intolerant. They have a new treatment for c difficile where they transplant poo from someone with a healthy gut biome and apparently it's 90% effective at treating it. I am not a doctor. Given her frequent use of antibiotics, it just seems like the most likely problem. No, not a bad thought, but she does not have c. diff colitis with normal CT scans and colonoscopy and a white count of 11. Temp of 99 is normal, not a fever. Thanks Doc! 
  
 TheAkashicRecord 
 Fri Aug 7 15:22:10 2015 UTC 
 Clostridium difficile. It's a bacteria thatll replace your natural gut bacteria when it gets killed by antibiotics. It causes vomiting and fever and diarrhea. You can treat it with probiotics, which are pills with harmless normal gut bacteria. Could also try yogurt if she's not lactose intolerant. They have a new treatment for c difficile where they transplant poo from someone with a healthy gut biome and apparently it's 90% effective at treating it. I am not a doctor. Given her frequent use of antibiotics, it just seems like the most likely problem. No, not a bad thought, but she does not have c. diff colitis with normal CT scans and colonoscopy and a white count of 11. Temp of 99 is normal, not a fever. Thanks Doc! 
  
 drkrunch 
 Fri Aug 7 21:58:39 2015 UTC 
 No, not a bad thought, but she does not have c. diff colitis with normal CT scans and colonoscopy and a white count of 11. Temp of 99 is normal, not a fever. Thanks Doc! 
  
 TheAkashicRecord 
 Fri Aug 7 22:29:38 2015 UTC 
 Thanks Doc! 
  
 Maglia 
 Fri Aug 7 20:51:33 2015 UTC 
 Does she feel full early? Yes she does... See if she can get a gastric emptying study down. I have similar symptoms with gastroparesis. 
  
 chendoguy 
 Fri Aug 7 21:16:16 2015 UTC 
 Yes she does... See if she can get a gastric emptying study down. I have similar symptoms with gastroparesis. 
  
 Maglia 
 Fri Aug 7 21:30:31 2015 UTC 
 See if she can get a gastric emptying study down. I have similar symptoms with gastroparesis. 
  
 Upstagemalarky 
 Fri Aug 7 14:19:38 2015 UTC 
 I am in the Midwest as well with the same symptoms. After 3 years (and many doctors) I was finally tested and found positive for Lyme disease. Does your wife hike or walk your dog at the forest preserves? Just a thought. Just yesterday I googled Lyme disease but the symptoms didn't match. It didn't list stomach issues as one of them. Did you have the stomach issues and everything else like my wife? Yes same stomach issues but I've had a couple major surgeries in the GI area so it could be a combination of both. My doc says Lyme makes whatever symptoms you already have worse. Has she had any surgeries or other physical trauma happen to her in the last few years? Edit: also how's her energy? Fatigue? 
  
 chendoguy 
 Fri Aug 7 14:52:43 2015 UTC 
 Just yesterday I googled Lyme disease but the symptoms didn't match. It didn't list stomach issues as one of them. Did you have the stomach issues and everything else like my wife? Yes same stomach issues but I've had a couple major surgeries in the GI area so it could be a combination of both. My doc says Lyme makes whatever symptoms you already have worse. Has she had any surgeries or other physical trauma happen to her in the last few years? Edit: also how's her energy? Fatigue? 
  
 Upstagemalarky 
 Fri Aug 7 14:58:24 2015 UTC 
 Yes same stomach issues but I've had a couple major surgeries in the GI area so it could be a combination of both. My doc says Lyme makes whatever symptoms you already have worse. Has she had any surgeries or other physical trauma happen to her in the last few years? Edit: also how's her energy? Fatigue? 
  
 