I currently have Bell's Palsy. Does that mean that I most likely have herpes? 
 party-poopa 
 Sun Aug 9 19:28:55 2015 UTC 
 Hi r/AskDocs, I am a male, 25, 71kg, 5'9, Black. 5 days ago, my face started feeling funny. I couldn't completely control one side of it. Went to see a doctor, and I have bell's palsy. It is very annoying, and hopefully this isn't permanent. I have an MRI scheduled on Tuesday. What I don't understand, is the fact that the doctor gave me something for herpes. I did some digging, and apparently Bell's palsy has something to do with herpes. Now, I have no idea how I possibly could have caught herpes. The closest my penis has ever been to a vagina was during my birth, I have never had sex, let alone unprotected sex. No sexual activity whatsoever, and I currently have no interest in it. If I'm not mistaken, herpes is detected by checking one's blood, am I correct? I donated my blood a few times in 2013 and 2014, they sent me a letter asking me to please donate more, got checked for STDs (they only took my blood, didn't take a look down there), spent 4 days in ICU earlier this year (miopericarditis) where they kept taking blood samples, and nobody has ever told me I could have herpes. How could I possibly have caught herpes? This seriously baffles/terrifies me. However, I have recently learned from my sister that my mom has herpes (on her butt apparently), we share a bathroom and I'm terrified that I could have somehow gotten it from her. Thank you for your help 
  
 Ulsenius 
 Sun Aug 9 19:45:19 2015 UTC 
 Bell's palsy is probably caused by HSV-1. The majority of adults is seropositive for HSV-1 (meaning that they were once infected and the virus probably lays dormant somewhere in the body. HSV-2 is more commonly associated with genital lesions and HSV-1 with lesions around the mouth. This seriously baffles/terrifies me. Why? If I'm not mistaken, herpes is detected by checking one's blood, am I correct? I donated my blood a few times in 2013 and 2014, they sent me a letter asking me to please donate more, got checked for STDs (they only took my blood, didn't take a look down there), spent 4 days in ICU earlier this year (miopericarditis) where they kept taking blood samples, and nobody has ever told me I could have herpes. Donated blood is not tested for HSV1 where I practise. Even if they tested for HSV1 during your ICU stay, the fact that you might have been seropositive is hardly an important finding. Probably other test results were more relevant to discuss. Thank you for the quick reply! Well, I never thought I could possibly have it, and from what I've heard/seen, it's something you don't want to have. I've always figured there was no way I couldn't be "clean". Is it so common that doctors/nurses wouldn't even bother telling me I have it? Yes, it is that common. Many people are positive for HSV-1, but not all of them actually get outbreaks. Besides that, what were you given for "herpes?" The virus that causes the chicken pox and shingles is called "herpes zoster" and is in the same family, but isn't the same as HSV. Both herpes zoster and HSV are known to cause Bell's palsy, and they can often be treated with the same drugs, so you still won't know whether you have HSV or not. You can ask to be tested, but it's not actually that important. I'm currently taking Valacyclovir. I'll have the blood test results tomorrow, hopefully this isn't bad. Jesus, I didn't think it was that common. HSV-1 8s so very common. I've had that kind since I was a toddler (32 now) and I only get a cold sore (also called fever blisters) when I'm either incredibly stressed out, or have an illness. Occasionally one might pop up when I have a menstrual cycle, but that trigger has reduced dramatically the older I've gotten. And obviously that trigger is one you won't need to worry about! My SO, who I've been with for 5 years, has HSV-1 as well but in all that time, he's only ever had one cold sore, and it lasted for half the time one of mine would last. I just figured as one of the many who have such a common virus, that I'd toss out these bits info on it, in case that ends up being the type you have. Yep. Very common. In USA the prevalence is somewhere around 68% for HSV-1. edit: For clarification, HSV-1 is the one that is associated with cold sores on the lips. It is also the one associated with Bell's Palsy. HSV-2 is genital herpes (the one people don't want). Up to 50% of new genital herpes infections are caused by HSV1. It's not just the cold sore one anymore. 
  
 party-poopa 
 Sun Aug 9 19:52:39 2015 UTC 
 Thank you for the quick reply! Well, I never thought I could possibly have it, and from what I've heard/seen, it's something you don't want to have. I've always figured there was no way I couldn't be "clean". Is it so common that doctors/nurses wouldn't even bother telling me I have it? Yes, it is that common. Many people are positive for HSV-1, but not all of them actually get outbreaks. Besides that, what were you given for "herpes?" The virus that causes the chicken pox and shingles is called "herpes zoster" and is in the same family, but isn't the same as HSV. Both herpes zoster and HSV are known to cause Bell's palsy, and they can often be treated with the same drugs, so you still won't know whether you have HSV or not. You can ask to be tested, but it's not actually that important. I'm currently taking Valacyclovir. I'll have the blood test results tomorrow, hopefully this isn't bad. Jesus, I didn't think it was that common. HSV-1 8s so very common. I've had that kind since I was a toddler (32 now) and I only get a cold sore (also called fever blisters) when I'm either incredibly stressed out, or have an illness. Occasionally one might pop up when I have a menstrual cycle, but that trigger has reduced dramatically the older I've gotten. And obviously that trigger is one you won't need to worry about! My SO, who I've been with for 5 years, has HSV-1 as well but in all that time, he's only ever had one cold sore, and it lasted for half the time one of mine would last. I just figured as one of the many who have such a common virus, that I'd toss out these bits info on it, in case that ends up being the type you have. Yep. Very common. In USA the prevalence is somewhere around 68% for HSV-1. edit: For clarification, HSV-1 is the one that is associated with cold sores on the lips. It is also the one associated with Bell's Palsy. HSV-2 is genital herpes (the one people don't want). Up to 50% of new genital herpes infections are caused by HSV1. It's not just the cold sore one anymore. 
  
 orthostatic_htn 
 Sun Aug 9 20:59:29 2015 UTC 
 Yes, it is that common. Many people are positive for HSV-1, but not all of them actually get outbreaks. Besides that, what were you given for "herpes?" The virus that causes the chicken pox and shingles is called "herpes zoster" and is in the same family, but isn't the same as HSV. Both herpes zoster and HSV are known to cause Bell's palsy, and they can often be treated with the same drugs, so you still won't know whether you have HSV or not. You can ask to be tested, but it's not actually that important. I'm currently taking Valacyclovir. I'll have the blood test results tomorrow, hopefully this isn't bad. Jesus, I didn't think it was that common. HSV-1 8s so very common. I've had that kind since I was a toddler (32 now) and I only get a cold sore (also called fever blisters) when I'm either incredibly stressed out, or have an illness. Occasionally one might pop up when I have a menstrual cycle, but that trigger has reduced dramatically the older I've gotten. And obviously that trigger is one you won't need to worry about! My SO, who I've been with for 5 years, has HSV-1 as well but in all that time, he's only ever had one cold sore, and it lasted for half the time one of mine would last. I just figured as one of the many who have such a common virus, that I'd toss out these bits info on it, in case that ends up being the type you have. Yep. Very common. In USA the prevalence is somewhere around 68% for HSV-1. edit: For clarification, HSV-1 is the one that is associated with cold sores on the lips. It is also the one associated with Bell's Palsy. HSV-2 is genital herpes (the one people don't want). Up to 50% of new genital herpes infections are caused by HSV1. It's not just the cold sore one anymore. 
  
 party-poopa 
 Sun Aug 9 22:00:26 2015 UTC 
 I'm currently taking Valacyclovir. I'll have the blood test results tomorrow, hopefully this isn't bad. Jesus, I didn't think it was that common. HSV-1 8s so very common. I've had that kind since I was a toddler (32 now) and I only get a cold sore (also called fever blisters) when I'm either incredibly stressed out, or have an illness. Occasionally one might pop up when I have a menstrual cycle, but that trigger has reduced dramatically the older I've gotten. And obviously that trigger is one you won't need to worry about! My SO, who I've been with for 5 years, has HSV-1 as well but in all that time, he's only ever had one cold sore, and it lasted for half the time one of mine would last. I just figured as one of the many who have such a common virus, that I'd toss out these bits info on it, in case that ends up being the type you have. Yep. Very common. In USA the prevalence is somewhere around 68% for HSV-1. edit: For clarification, HSV-1 is the one that is associated with cold sores on the lips. It is also the one associated with Bell's Palsy. HSV-2 is genital herpes (the one people don't want). Up to 50% of new genital herpes infections are caused by HSV1. It's not just the cold sore one anymore. 
  
 idwthis 
 Mon Aug 10 00:47:39 2015 UTC 
 HSV-1 8s so very common. I've had that kind since I was a toddler (32 now) and I only get a cold sore (also called fever blisters) when I'm either incredibly stressed out, or have an illness. Occasionally one might pop up when I have a menstrual cycle, but that trigger has reduced dramatically the older I've gotten. And obviously that trigger is one you won't need to worry about! My SO, who I've been with for 5 years, has HSV-1 as well but in all that time, he's only ever had one cold sore, and it lasted for half the time one of mine would last. I just figured as one of the many who have such a common virus, that I'd toss out these bits info on it, in case that ends up being the type you have. 
  
 Anticode 
 Mon Aug 10 00:23:17 2015 UTC 
 Yep. Very common. In USA the prevalence is somewhere around 68% for HSV-1. edit: For clarification, HSV-1 is the one that is associated with cold sores on the lips. It is also the one associated with Bell's Palsy. HSV-2 is genital herpes (the one people don't want). Up to 50% of new genital herpes infections are caused by HSV1. It's not just the cold sore one anymore. 
  
 givoly 
 Mon Aug 10 01:30:32 2015 UTC 
 Up to 50% of new genital herpes infections are caused by HSV1. It's not just the cold sore one anymore. 
  
 CutthroatTeaser 
 Mon Aug 10 05:01:20 2015 UTC 
 HSV-1 generally causes cold sores. Cold sores aren't scary so you shouldn't be scared about possibly having an HSV infection. Extremely common. 
  
 