Full Body Spasm and Salt Cravings 
 SaltLick1 
 Thu Aug 13 21:57:07 2015 UTC 
 Age: 21 Sex: Female Height: 5ft9 Weight 170lbs I have had these spams for as long as I can remember, however they are starting to increase in intensity and occurrence. It mainly is just my upper abdomen that gets them and it is almost like a tourettes type twitch. It feels similar to an anxiety attack before and after. My entire body feels tense, and I find small motor functions (such as typing) difficult. They are gotten increasingly worse, along with salt cravings. Not chips, or salty food. Literally just salt. I could eat it non stop if my boyfriend let me. It's not salt on my food, I literally go grab the sea salt box and chow down. I drink about 2L of water a day, and we have started changing over to a healthier diet in hopes that it will help (no more candy and soda). I have also started to need around 12 hours of sleep to function, if I don't get that I find myself exhausted throughout the day, even falling asleep at work. I also have trouble maintaining body temperature. Sometimes I can not stop shivering no matter what. I can be wrapped like a burrito in a thick down comfort, and still be cold and shivering. I have been feeling a bit depressed lately, but not to the point it effects my daily life (I can still go to work/school/do things). I also have a lot of mystery cramping through out my cycle. I do have polycystic ovary syndrome, and a copper IUD (recent). Let me know if I can answer any other questions. Thank you for taking the time to read this! 
  
 SarcasticFrenzy 
 Fri Aug 14 04:12:41 2015 UTC 
 Not a doctor. Hyponatremia? Agreed, go get sodium levels checked asap How do I go about this? What test do I ask for? I agree with kero584 that it should be your doctor who decides what tests to order, and you really shouldn't need to suggest anything yourself. The important thing is to go to a doctor ASAP and discuss your symptoms. However, if some bizarre circumstances mean that you need to suggest tests yourself, sodium is tested as part of "electrolytes", which I would think is a reasonable test to do if you're getting neurological symptoms (difficulty with typing, spasms). Cold intolerance, sleepiness and low mood also suggest that you should have your thyroid tested as well ("thyroid function tests"). I have to suggest them myself or they won't order any. They won't even let me transfer my medical records to the country because "it's not worth the effort", even after I explained that I have had multiple surgeries "/ That is...worrying. Well, I've given you two suggested tests which I think would be appropriate, maybe others can give you more. Just make sure you don't leave it too long, as your symptoms could be a sign of serious disease, see this for example. Let us know how it goes. Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 nren4237 
 Fri Aug 14 04:28:31 2015 UTC 
 Agreed, go get sodium levels checked asap How do I go about this? What test do I ask for? I agree with kero584 that it should be your doctor who decides what tests to order, and you really shouldn't need to suggest anything yourself. The important thing is to go to a doctor ASAP and discuss your symptoms. However, if some bizarre circumstances mean that you need to suggest tests yourself, sodium is tested as part of "electrolytes", which I would think is a reasonable test to do if you're getting neurological symptoms (difficulty with typing, spasms). Cold intolerance, sleepiness and low mood also suggest that you should have your thyroid tested as well ("thyroid function tests"). I have to suggest them myself or they won't order any. They won't even let me transfer my medical records to the country because "it's not worth the effort", even after I explained that I have had multiple surgeries "/ That is...worrying. Well, I've given you two suggested tests which I think would be appropriate, maybe others can give you more. Just make sure you don't leave it too long, as your symptoms could be a sign of serious disease, see this for example. Let us know how it goes. Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 SaltLick1 
 Fri Aug 14 08:39:02 2015 UTC 
 How do I go about this? What test do I ask for? I agree with kero584 that it should be your doctor who decides what tests to order, and you really shouldn't need to suggest anything yourself. The important thing is to go to a doctor ASAP and discuss your symptoms. However, if some bizarre circumstances mean that you need to suggest tests yourself, sodium is tested as part of "electrolytes", which I would think is a reasonable test to do if you're getting neurological symptoms (difficulty with typing, spasms). Cold intolerance, sleepiness and low mood also suggest that you should have your thyroid tested as well ("thyroid function tests"). I have to suggest them myself or they won't order any. They won't even let me transfer my medical records to the country because "it's not worth the effort", even after I explained that I have had multiple surgeries "/ That is...worrying. Well, I've given you two suggested tests which I think would be appropriate, maybe others can give you more. Just make sure you don't leave it too long, as your symptoms could be a sign of serious disease, see this for example. Let us know how it goes. Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 nren4237 
 Fri Aug 14 10:04:10 2015 UTC 
 I agree with kero584 that it should be your doctor who decides what tests to order, and you really shouldn't need to suggest anything yourself. The important thing is to go to a doctor ASAP and discuss your symptoms. However, if some bizarre circumstances mean that you need to suggest tests yourself, sodium is tested as part of "electrolytes", which I would think is a reasonable test to do if you're getting neurological symptoms (difficulty with typing, spasms). Cold intolerance, sleepiness and low mood also suggest that you should have your thyroid tested as well ("thyroid function tests"). I have to suggest them myself or they won't order any. They won't even let me transfer my medical records to the country because "it's not worth the effort", even after I explained that I have had multiple surgeries "/ That is...worrying. Well, I've given you two suggested tests which I think would be appropriate, maybe others can give you more. Just make sure you don't leave it too long, as your symptoms could be a sign of serious disease, see this for example. Let us know how it goes. Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 SaltLick1 
 Fri Aug 14 10:36:22 2015 UTC 
 I have to suggest them myself or they won't order any. They won't even let me transfer my medical records to the country because "it's not worth the effort", even after I explained that I have had multiple surgeries "/ That is...worrying. Well, I've given you two suggested tests which I think would be appropriate, maybe others can give you more. Just make sure you don't leave it too long, as your symptoms could be a sign of serious disease, see this for example. Let us know how it goes. Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 nren4237 
 Fri Aug 14 11:13:05 2015 UTC 
 That is...worrying. Well, I've given you two suggested tests which I think would be appropriate, maybe others can give you more. Just make sure you don't leave it too long, as your symptoms could be a sign of serious disease, see this for example. Let us know how it goes. Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 SaltLick1 
 Fri Aug 14 11:25:55 2015 UTC 
 Thanks a ton! I think if I can suggest tests they will be a lot more likely to order it. I just hope they do the right ones (I have a copper IUD because my doctor didn't know what Mirena was so she just put the copper one in, I didn't find out until 2 months later when I started having 2 week long periods and I called them) 
  
 kero584 
 Fri Aug 14 04:51:17 2015 UTC 
 You should schedule an appointment with your doctor to speak about these issues. He or she will have a better idea of what may or may not be wrong with you after taking a more detailed and focused history and taking the details of your personal medical situation into context. Additionally he or she will be able to better assess based on a physical exam and perhaps some laboratory testing (which no one online could do) that may assist in the diagnosis and formulation of a treatment plan. The problem is, in the country I live in we don't have "home doctors". It works kind of more like a clinic. I had to FORCE them to look for what was wrong with me peroid wise, and when she realized it was PCOS, she simply told me I had it and left, so I had to google it at home to see what it was. It goes a lot better if I can specifically request a specific test, otherwise they wont test anything. EDIT: Plus we just had half of the nurses in the country resign due to pay disputes... 
  
 SaltLick1 
 Fri Aug 14 08:38:28 2015 UTC 
 The problem is, in the country I live in we don't have "home doctors". It works kind of more like a clinic. I had to FORCE them to look for what was wrong with me peroid wise, and when she realized it was PCOS, she simply told me I had it and left, so I had to google it at home to see what it was. It goes a lot better if I can specifically request a specific test, otherwise they wont test anything. EDIT: Plus we just had half of the nurses in the country resign due to pay disputes... 
  
 TheBreadSmellsFine 
 Fri Aug 14 04:22:48 2015 UTC 
 Magnesium deficiency? 
  
 