Always exhausted. 5 Hour Energy works wonders, but I don't want to kill myself. Help? 
 foreverfoiled 
 Wed Aug 19 13:43:51 2015 UTC 
 Let's start with the basics. 22 y/o female, 5'3", caucasian, yada yada. Lifelong insomnia, lifelong anxiety sufferer. Medication started a few years ago, treated undiagnosed depression. Still take meds to manage social anxiety. I take Cymbalta and birth control. I'm exhausted. Always. Every day, I'm asked, "how are you?" For years, my answer has always been, "tired, but hanging in there." I recently discovered the joy of 5 Hour Energy. As soon as I take it, I'm SO happy, energized, loving my job and my work, and less anxious. Minutes prior, I was hating my job, feeling self-conscious, groggy, the whole nine yards. Is there a natural supplement that I can take (no, I don't drink coffee or tea, it's gross) to feel this way? Can I take 8000% of daily recommended vitamins and always feel this happy? Keep in mind, I've used melatonin, I've been prescribed Ambien (that made me hallucinate and made me suicidal, so had to stop). Nothing works in terms of sleep... except alcohol. Maybe I should just have wine before bed. Regardless, every morning, no matter what, I'm lethargcic. I have NEVER sprung out of my bed in my life except MAYBE Christmas morning as a kid. I am sick and tired of being tired. Please help. 
  
 Linuxthekid 
 Wed Aug 19 14:12:04 2015 UTC 
 Have you had a thyroid panel done? I TOTALLY think I have thyroid issues. Did a test once. Results were "a little low" but normal. But I have all of the symptoms of hypothyroidism basically, such as: fatigue very sensitive to cold dry skin (been diagnosed as eczema) constipation (which I nicely call being chronically dehydrated) depression (hard to say, this fluctuates) memory issues (started affecting me within the past year or so) heavy menstrual cycles that sometimes are irregular (i.e. skipping months randomly) lethargy/body weakness/etc. Try going to an endocrinologist who uses European values for thyroid levels. They're a little more inclusive. Yes to seeing an endocrinologist and yes to seeing someone with a European medicine background/ approach. Here in the U.S. they put you on synthetic thyroid medication, which doesn't always work well, and doesn't address the underlying issue in the body. StopTheThyroidMadness.com is an excellent resource for a beginner. I also suggest getting your adrenal glands checked. 
  
 foreverfoiled 
 Wed Aug 19 15:56:09 2015 UTC 
 I TOTALLY think I have thyroid issues. Did a test once. Results were "a little low" but normal. But I have all of the symptoms of hypothyroidism basically, such as: fatigue very sensitive to cold dry skin (been diagnosed as eczema) constipation (which I nicely call being chronically dehydrated) depression (hard to say, this fluctuates) memory issues (started affecting me within the past year or so) heavy menstrual cycles that sometimes are irregular (i.e. skipping months randomly) lethargy/body weakness/etc. Try going to an endocrinologist who uses European values for thyroid levels. They're a little more inclusive. Yes to seeing an endocrinologist and yes to seeing someone with a European medicine background/ approach. Here in the U.S. they put you on synthetic thyroid medication, which doesn't always work well, and doesn't address the underlying issue in the body. StopTheThyroidMadness.com is an excellent resource for a beginner. I also suggest getting your adrenal glands checked. 
  
 Bunny_ofDeath 
 Wed Aug 19 22:09:47 2015 UTC 
 Try going to an endocrinologist who uses European values for thyroid levels. They're a little more inclusive. Yes to seeing an endocrinologist and yes to seeing someone with a European medicine background/ approach. Here in the U.S. they put you on synthetic thyroid medication, which doesn't always work well, and doesn't address the underlying issue in the body. StopTheThyroidMadness.com is an excellent resource for a beginner. I also suggest getting your adrenal glands checked. 
  
 rumlivingston 
 Thu Aug 20 00:12:57 2015 UTC 
 Yes to seeing an endocrinologist and yes to seeing someone with a European medicine background/ approach. Here in the U.S. they put you on synthetic thyroid medication, which doesn't always work well, and doesn't address the underlying issue in the body. StopTheThyroidMadness.com is an excellent resource for a beginner. I also suggest getting your adrenal glands checked. 
  
 HomChkn 
 Wed Aug 19 17:31:00 2015 UTC 
 This is a weird thing but.... My wife had issues with her birth control. Her hormone levels where off because of it and she was ALWAYS tired. Had many of the same symptoms. May need to talk to your OB/GYN about it. 
  
 thisisnotyourusernam 
 Wed Aug 19 15:12:26 2015 UTC 
 I would also add that your B-12 and your iron should be checked as well. I'll request that with the doctor again. 
  
 foreverfoiled 
 Wed Aug 19 15:57:42 2015 UTC 
 I'll request that with the doctor again. 
  
 blueberry_deuce 
 Wed Aug 19 19:38:56 2015 UTC 
 I notice that you said "yadda yadda yadda" instead of including your weight. Are you overweight? I'm 130lbs.Normal BMI. 
  
 foreverfoiled 
 Wed Aug 26 18:41:26 2015 UTC 
 I'm 130lbs.Normal BMI. 
  
 blam501 
 Wed Aug 19 16:46:13 2015 UTC 
 Have you considered you are nutrient deficient, specifically B-Vitamins? While caffeine is the main "upper" of the 5-hour energy shot, there are A LOT of B-Vitamins in there. I highly suggest getting yourself on a nice multivitamin or a B-Complex. You stated that you take birth control. Birth control most commonly depletes B-Vitamins. 
  
 Yerwun 
 Wed Aug 19 18:38:31 2015 UTC 
 Obligatory not a doctor (my field is psychology) but ass others have suggested, I would look into iron levels, thyroid (which can fluctuate) and your sleep quality. If those are normal and your doc has no other theories, I would really suggest some CBT (with a qualified psychologist). This fatigue may really be depression, and meds alone often aren't enough to manage it. The meds may also need to be upped or changed. Adding to the last bit, Cymbalta can easily cause fatigue for some people. At that point I'd recommend seeing a psychiatrist instead of a PCP because more in-depth knowledge is needed to choose the next step. 
  
 Fozee 
 Thu Aug 20 00:28:17 2015 UTC 
 Adding to the last bit, Cymbalta can easily cause fatigue for some people. At that point I'd recommend seeing a psychiatrist instead of a PCP because more in-depth knowledge is needed to choose the next step. 
  
 Oilfan94 
 Wed Aug 19 15:10:38 2015 UTC 
 (no, I don't drink coffee or tea, it's gross) Why do you think so, so many people are addicted to drinking coffee? It's the caffeine and how it makes us feel. ASAIK, the primary ingredient in 5H.E. is caffeine, about as much as a large cup of coffee. Caffeine doesn't actually give you energy, it just counteracts the feeling of being fatigued. Have you considered that you might have sleep apnea? It can often go undiagnosed for years and years and it prevents you from getting good, restful sleep. Which, of course, takes it's toll on you. Either way, keep bringing this up with your doctor. I have not considered that, but maybe I should do a sleep study? One friend suggested a "caffeine pill". Is that just as dangerous? I'm no expert (not a doctor either) but I don't think that caffeine is dangerous, in small doses, even over a long time. People drink coffee everyday of their lives. I don't know what else is in 5HE, but caffeine by itself is probably a lot more studied than 5HE. Regular 5HE has close to 200 mg. As far as research, in humans there's more regarding caffeine consumed as coffee, and less in isolation; the opposite is true for animal studies. I was going to say this at least as an experiment or short term measure. Try some caffeine pills to see if it has the same affect as the 5 hour energy. Most studies have shown that long term caffeine intake is not harmful. If just caffeine doesn't work I would look at what's in the 5he and take them one at a time to see what about it is working. I would not take this regularly as there have been bad side effects for large doses. 
  
 foreverfoiled 
 Wed Aug 19 15:57:20 2015 UTC 
 I have not considered that, but maybe I should do a sleep study? One friend suggested a "caffeine pill". Is that just as dangerous? I'm no expert (not a doctor either) but I don't think that caffeine is dangerous, in small doses, even over a long time. People drink coffee everyday of their lives. I don't know what else is in 5HE, but caffeine by itself is probably a lot more studied than 5HE. Regular 5HE has close to 200 mg. As far as research, in humans there's more regarding caffeine consumed as coffee, and less in isolation; the opposite is true for animal studies. 
  
 Oilfan94 
 Wed Aug 19 16:07:26 2015 UTC 
 I'm no expert (not a doctor either) but I don't think that caffeine is dangerous, in small doses, even over a long time. People drink coffee everyday of their lives. I don't know what else is in 5HE, but caffeine by itself is probably a lot more studied than 5HE. Regular 5HE has close to 200 mg. As far as research, in humans there's more regarding caffeine consumed as coffee, and less in isolation; the opposite is true for animal studies. 
  
 SlimSlamtheFlimFlam 
 Thu Aug 20 01:48:38 2015 UTC 
 Regular 5HE has close to 200 mg. As far as research, in humans there's more regarding caffeine consumed as coffee, and less in isolation; the opposite is true for animal studies. 
  
 Sislar 
 Wed Aug 19 15:58:11 2015 UTC 
 I was going to say this at least as an experiment or short term measure. Try some caffeine pills to see if it has the same affect as the 5 hour energy. Most studies have shown that long term caffeine intake is not harmful. If just caffeine doesn't work I would look at what's in the 5he and take them one at a time to see what about it is working. I would not take this regularly as there have been bad side effects for large doses. 
  
 MSmember 
 Wed Aug 19 17:30:55 2015 UTC 
 take b12 and vitamin d. 
  
 rumlivingston 
 Thu Aug 20 00:17:06 2015 UTC 
 Dr. David Brownstein has an excellent book titled "Iodine: Why You Need It, Why You Can't Live Without It, 5th Edition", I highly suggest you to read it as it might have some answers for you. Be well :) 
  
 