I know I'll probably catch hell for this but is there any truth to the myth that doctors or surgeons will do less to keep you alive if you are an organ donor? 
 dimebag42018750 
 Sat Aug 29 16:58:08 2015 UTC 
  
  
 Ulsenius 
 Sat Aug 29 17:00:20 2015 UTC 
 I know I'll probably catch hell for this but is there any truth to the myth that doctors or surgeons will do less to keep you alive if you are an organ donor? No. If anything, we do more; as we usually stop or won't start futile medical treatments. If you're an organ donor, those treatments might be necessary to perserve your organs until brain death and heart beating donation. Super morbid yet interesting :) 
  
 GregTJ 
 Sat Aug 29 17:52:24 2015 UTC 
 Super morbid yet interesting :) 
  
 kero584 
 Sat Aug 29 20:23:10 2015 UTC 
 also doctors rarely if ever even know if patients are organ donors. Often times depending on the area of practice if the status has not been documented and a situation where a patient may pass comes to pass the hospital will not allow the doctor to have the discussion with the patient before "everything" is done and many places don't even allow the doctor to have the conversation (instead using an "organ procurement coordinator"). Finally, and perhaps most significantly, doctors think about saving their patient's life not, not some number of lives. Its interesting because if doctors thought more like that you would notice health care be given out in a lot different manor (in terms of drug allocation / physician time allocation, etc.) This. I've been practicing over a decade and have never known in advance if someone had designated themselves a donor. If someone is looking terminal, we will let family know and contact an organ donation service to approach the family about possibly donating because apparently, they're more likely to be successful than if the MD raises the subject. If we've taken the step to contact such a service, its because we feel the hope of salvage is essentially zero. Until then, we go full court press unless instructed otherwise by family. im really glad to hear this and next time i go to the tag office im gonna update my license and become an organ donor More important than that is to let your family/medical decision maker know what you want in the unlikely event that you are a potential donor. Even if the box is ticked on your license, you cannot be an organ donor unless your family consents. The box just gives a hint to your family. It does not obligate them to agree to organ donation if you for some reason become a potential donor. Edit: in the US wow good to know Congratulations. If it would bolster you convictions, I would also add that there is a large dichotomy amongst nations in regards to the amount of organ donors they have as a percentage of the population as in some places you are by default an organ donor unless you chose to opt out (unlike in America where you must chose to opt-in). While there is of course variability in regards to the health outcomes of these countries (as it is a complex question and obviously a result of a multitude of variables) there exists no evidence for worse care on the basis of this fact on a nationwide level as a function of organ donor % [deleted] I would discourage this way of thinking. I'm not sure if you're joking or not, but this is pretty much an argument against doing anything for anyone ever. Given that people who are pedophiles/ murderers (or both) often times do not publicize this fact (to the best of my knowledge) nor is it likely a lifetime priority for you to investigate this about any person whom you come into contact with, you basically are left with the conclusion never to do anything helpful for another human ever again. Well that escalated quickly how do you know that, or are you speaking from experience, or what? do you have a source? [deleted] surely this one example does not mean that every organ ever donated went to pedophilic murderers on death row. the fact that one person of questionable morals was given a heart transplant does not mean that the whole organ transplant program is destined to keep the Hannibal Lecters of the world alive and in good health. since i won't be needing my organs when i die, if i die in circumstances that allow for donation, i hope every organ in my body will be removed and re-used. otherwise, i hope my body is placed in a compost pile...or the ashes scattered where they will do the most good for the rest of the people on the earth. organ procurement coordinator" Sounds like a depressing job. How do I get it. Most of them are RN's. 
  
 CutthroatTeaser 
 Sat Aug 29 21:25:47 2015 UTC 
 This. I've been practicing over a decade and have never known in advance if someone had designated themselves a donor. If someone is looking terminal, we will let family know and contact an organ donation service to approach the family about possibly donating because apparently, they're more likely to be successful than if the MD raises the subject. If we've taken the step to contact such a service, its because we feel the hope of salvage is essentially zero. Until then, we go full court press unless instructed otherwise by family. im really glad to hear this and next time i go to the tag office im gonna update my license and become an organ donor More important than that is to let your family/medical decision maker know what you want in the unlikely event that you are a potential donor. Even if the box is ticked on your license, you cannot be an organ donor unless your family consents. The box just gives a hint to your family. It does not obligate them to agree to organ donation if you for some reason become a potential donor. Edit: in the US wow good to know Congratulations. If it would bolster you convictions, I would also add that there is a large dichotomy amongst nations in regards to the amount of organ donors they have as a percentage of the population as in some places you are by default an organ donor unless you chose to opt out (unlike in America where you must chose to opt-in). While there is of course variability in regards to the health outcomes of these countries (as it is a complex question and obviously a result of a multitude of variables) there exists no evidence for worse care on the basis of this fact on a nationwide level as a function of organ donor % [deleted] I would discourage this way of thinking. I'm not sure if you're joking or not, but this is pretty much an argument against doing anything for anyone ever. Given that people who are pedophiles/ murderers (or both) often times do not publicize this fact (to the best of my knowledge) nor is it likely a lifetime priority for you to investigate this about any person whom you come into contact with, you basically are left with the conclusion never to do anything helpful for another human ever again. Well that escalated quickly how do you know that, or are you speaking from experience, or what? do you have a source? [deleted] surely this one example does not mean that every organ ever donated went to pedophilic murderers on death row. the fact that one person of questionable morals was given a heart transplant does not mean that the whole organ transplant program is destined to keep the Hannibal Lecters of the world alive and in good health. since i won't be needing my organs when i die, if i die in circumstances that allow for donation, i hope every organ in my body will be removed and re-used. otherwise, i hope my body is placed in a compost pile...or the ashes scattered where they will do the most good for the rest of the people on the earth. 
  
 dimebag42018750 
 Sun Aug 30 00:03:47 2015 UTC 
 im really glad to hear this and next time i go to the tag office im gonna update my license and become an organ donor More important than that is to let your family/medical decision maker know what you want in the unlikely event that you are a potential donor. Even if the box is ticked on your license, you cannot be an organ donor unless your family consents. The box just gives a hint to your family. It does not obligate them to agree to organ donation if you for some reason become a potential donor. Edit: in the US wow good to know Congratulations. If it would bolster you convictions, I would also add that there is a large dichotomy amongst nations in regards to the amount of organ donors they have as a percentage of the population as in some places you are by default an organ donor unless you chose to opt out (unlike in America where you must chose to opt-in). While there is of course variability in regards to the health outcomes of these countries (as it is a complex question and obviously a result of a multitude of variables) there exists no evidence for worse care on the basis of this fact on a nationwide level as a function of organ donor % [deleted] I would discourage this way of thinking. I'm not sure if you're joking or not, but this is pretty much an argument against doing anything for anyone ever. Given that people who are pedophiles/ murderers (or both) often times do not publicize this fact (to the best of my knowledge) nor is it likely a lifetime priority for you to investigate this about any person whom you come into contact with, you basically are left with the conclusion never to do anything helpful for another human ever again. Well that escalated quickly how do you know that, or are you speaking from experience, or what? do you have a source? [deleted] surely this one example does not mean that every organ ever donated went to pedophilic murderers on death row. the fact that one person of questionable morals was given a heart transplant does not mean that the whole organ transplant program is destined to keep the Hannibal Lecters of the world alive and in good health. since i won't be needing my organs when i die, if i die in circumstances that allow for donation, i hope every organ in my body will be removed and re-used. otherwise, i hope my body is placed in a compost pile...or the ashes scattered where they will do the most good for the rest of the people on the earth. 
  
 hmmmpf 
 Sun Aug 30 15:21:14 2015 UTC 
 More important than that is to let your family/medical decision maker know what you want in the unlikely event that you are a potential donor. Even if the box is ticked on your license, you cannot be an organ donor unless your family consents. The box just gives a hint to your family. It does not obligate them to agree to organ donation if you for some reason become a potential donor. Edit: in the US wow good to know 
  
 dimebag42018750 
 Sun Aug 30 17:38:01 2015 UTC 
 wow good to know 
  
 kero584 
 Sun Aug 30 03:27:13 2015 UTC 
 Congratulations. If it would bolster you convictions, I would also add that there is a large dichotomy amongst nations in regards to the amount of organ donors they have as a percentage of the population as in some places you are by default an organ donor unless you chose to opt out (unlike in America where you must chose to opt-in). While there is of course variability in regards to the health outcomes of these countries (as it is a complex question and obviously a result of a multitude of variables) there exists no evidence for worse care on the basis of this fact on a nationwide level as a function of organ donor % 
  
 kero584 
 Sun Aug 30 03:23:25 2015 UTC 
 I would discourage this way of thinking. I'm not sure if you're joking or not, but this is pretty much an argument against doing anything for anyone ever. Given that people who are pedophiles/ murderers (or both) often times do not publicize this fact (to the best of my knowledge) nor is it likely a lifetime priority for you to investigate this about any person whom you come into contact with, you basically are left with the conclusion never to do anything helpful for another human ever again. 
  
 dimebag42018750 
 Sun Aug 30 13:37:52 2015 UTC 
 Well that escalated quickly 
  
 jogden2015 
 Sun Aug 30 09:17:59 2015 UTC 
 how do you know that, or are you speaking from experience, or what? do you have a source? [deleted] surely this one example does not mean that every organ ever donated went to pedophilic murderers on death row. the fact that one person of questionable morals was given a heart transplant does not mean that the whole organ transplant program is destined to keep the Hannibal Lecters of the world alive and in good health. since i won't be needing my organs when i die, if i die in circumstances that allow for donation, i hope every organ in my body will be removed and re-used. otherwise, i hope my body is placed in a compost pile...or the ashes scattered where they will do the most good for the rest of the people on the earth. 
  
 jogden2015 
 Wed Sep 2 10:40:04 2015 UTC 
 surely this one example does not mean that every organ ever donated went to pedophilic murderers on death row. the fact that one person of questionable morals was given a heart transplant does not mean that the whole organ transplant program is destined to keep the Hannibal Lecters of the world alive and in good health. since i won't be needing my organs when i die, if i die in circumstances that allow for donation, i hope every organ in my body will be removed and re-used. otherwise, i hope my body is placed in a compost pile...or the ashes scattered where they will do the most good for the rest of the people on the earth. 
  
 ryan924 
 Sun Aug 30 01:42:08 2015 UTC 
 organ procurement coordinator" Sounds like a depressing job. How do I get it. Most of them are RN's. 
  
 hmmmpf 
 Sun Aug 30 15:15:52 2015 UTC 
 Most of them are RN's. 
  
 The_Gage 
 Sat Aug 29 18:45:58 2015 UTC 
 To add to the excellent comment by Ulsenius, nearly all, if not all, hospitals separate medical and surgical teams from organ procurement teams. The surgeons who procure and transplant the donated organs are entirely separate from the people caring for the patient prior to death. This helps minimize any possible bias or conflict of interest in care. 
  
 dimebag42018750 
 Sat Aug 29 19:57:39 2015 UTC 
 thanks guys 
  
 jogden2015 
 Sun Aug 30 09:19:29 2015 UTC 
 i'm glad you didn't 'catch hell' for this post. the comments were very informative. 
  
 WeaponsHot 
 Sun Aug 30 23:49:42 2015 UTC 
 As a "not a doctor" guy, I'm going to have to say no. How would they ever know you're an organ donor in the first place? Did they ask? No. Did you offer the information? No. Did they snag your D/L to look for the donor tick mark? No. It's a myth that takes only a second to dismiss as there would be no way for a doctor to even know you're a donor unless you specifically signed an advanced directive stating that you want your organs donated in case you die. Even at this, the doctor probably never saw the AD. 
  
 fraufrau 
 Sat Aug 29 20:22:43 2015 UTC 
 This is not true at harborview medical center. 
  
 