Doctors afraid to give out pain medication even for people who need it badly? What's going on? 
 Ampzx 
 Mon Aug 31 09:09:13 2015 UTC 
 So from what I'm gathering, people with chronic pain are having a problem getting any opiods as doctors are neglecting to prescribe them? Even if you get a referral to a doctor by relative chances are if they're giving out pain medication they are no longer accepting new patients? Can someone elaborate on this? 
  
 Chayoss 
 Mon Aug 31 09:26:41 2015 UTC 
 Pain medication is addictive and often abused. The difficulty is discerning who genuinely needs pain medication and who's faking it to get high, since there are no objective, measurable signs of pain. It's frequently frustrating and doctors are coming under a lot of scrutiny for their prescribing. I can see that being frustrating. Few bad apples ruin it for the bunch. So what's the solution? I have a hard time believing that not taking any new patients or not prescribing pain medication at all is the correct answer. Some people genuinely need it and are getting turned down because of this. I don't think that should be able to happen. The increasingly large answer in acute settings is to just give the medication; if they're in pain then we helped, if they're addicts then it's not our place (in the acute setting like the ER/A&E) to pretend we're fixing the public health system. The doctors who really get into trouble are the ones giving pain medications over long periods of time to patients reporting chronic pain, such as pain clinics and even just PCPs. This is where all of the fear over freely prescribing opioids came from. It still affects acute care but many places are realizing the mistake and that "but he might be an addict" is not a reasonably ethical response to someone in pain. It is always a tough line to walk between who "really" needs it and who doesn't. However, I would hesitate to say it is just a "few bad apples." The United States has around 3% of the world's population and consumes some 90% of the world's prescription opiates. It is a much larger problem than just a few bad apples. There are also a huge number of deaths attributed to opiates (I can't recall that number off the top of my head) as well as a large black market for re-selling them after prescribing. It is indeed unfair and terrible for those who are in genuine need that don't get their needs filled because of this, but it is also genuinely a truly massive problem. There are plenty of people that have serious pain that have kidney stones that can be seen and measured who are sometimes not getting the medication they need and not just from one doctor, but a few. I have a friend that has had to go to the emergency several times for kidney stones because the doctors either did not give him the medicine he needed or did not give him more than a few. 
  
 Ampzx 
 Mon Aug 31 09:50:25 2015 UTC 
 I can see that being frustrating. Few bad apples ruin it for the bunch. So what's the solution? I have a hard time believing that not taking any new patients or not prescribing pain medication at all is the correct answer. Some people genuinely need it and are getting turned down because of this. I don't think that should be able to happen. The increasingly large answer in acute settings is to just give the medication; if they're in pain then we helped, if they're addicts then it's not our place (in the acute setting like the ER/A&E) to pretend we're fixing the public health system. The doctors who really get into trouble are the ones giving pain medications over long periods of time to patients reporting chronic pain, such as pain clinics and even just PCPs. This is where all of the fear over freely prescribing opioids came from. It still affects acute care but many places are realizing the mistake and that "but he might be an addict" is not a reasonably ethical response to someone in pain. It is always a tough line to walk between who "really" needs it and who doesn't. However, I would hesitate to say it is just a "few bad apples." The United States has around 3% of the world's population and consumes some 90% of the world's prescription opiates. It is a much larger problem than just a few bad apples. There are also a huge number of deaths attributed to opiates (I can't recall that number off the top of my head) as well as a large black market for re-selling them after prescribing. It is indeed unfair and terrible for those who are in genuine need that don't get their needs filled because of this, but it is also genuinely a truly massive problem. 
  
 Fozee 
 Mon Aug 31 10:58:18 2015 UTC 
 The increasingly large answer in acute settings is to just give the medication; if they're in pain then we helped, if they're addicts then it's not our place (in the acute setting like the ER/A&E) to pretend we're fixing the public health system. The doctors who really get into trouble are the ones giving pain medications over long periods of time to patients reporting chronic pain, such as pain clinics and even just PCPs. This is where all of the fear over freely prescribing opioids came from. It still affects acute care but many places are realizing the mistake and that "but he might be an addict" is not a reasonably ethical response to someone in pain. 
  
 nybgrus 
 Tue Sep 1 11:44:03 2015 UTC 
 It is always a tough line to walk between who "really" needs it and who doesn't. However, I would hesitate to say it is just a "few bad apples." The United States has around 3% of the world's population and consumes some 90% of the world's prescription opiates. It is a much larger problem than just a few bad apples. There are also a huge number of deaths attributed to opiates (I can't recall that number off the top of my head) as well as a large black market for re-selling them after prescribing. It is indeed unfair and terrible for those who are in genuine need that don't get their needs filled because of this, but it is also genuinely a truly massive problem. 
  
 aolsux00 
 Mon Aug 31 20:21:27 2015 UTC 
 There are plenty of people that have serious pain that have kidney stones that can be seen and measured who are sometimes not getting the medication they need and not just from one doctor, but a few. I have a friend that has had to go to the emergency several times for kidney stones because the doctors either did not give him the medicine he needed or did not give him more than a few. 
  
 wreckleague 
 Mon Aug 31 17:07:29 2015 UTC 
 I can tell you that as a resident where I'm training it's extremely difficult to discharge someone with anything other than Tylenol 3 or Ultram. We have to get a special script that is filled out and signed by the attending who is often operating non stop so we have to catch them between cases, then we then have to take that script to our office and have a copy made, then we have to input the script into the computer and physically place the script into their chart. Generally speaking if we know that a patient will need more than Tylenol 3 or Ultram then we plan ahead to make sure we have all that done for their discharge, otherwise it can cause huge delays. With inpatients I am also a little timid with prescribing narcotics simply based on their potential side effects, I have yet to develop a good understanding of just how much someone will need in a certain situation to adequately treat their pain while avoiding side effects like constipation or respiratory depression. Also, different people simply have different thresholds, some people should be in loads of pain, but they basically don't ask for any pain meds at all. Other people will stub their toe and demand dilaudid all day, and while some of these folks may be narcotic seeking others simply have a very low pain tolerance. With that being said, whenever a patient is in pain or tells me that what they are getting isn't cutting it, I don't disregard that, and my colleagues dont either. I would rather unnecessarily give out a few doses of dilaudid to an opiate addict than deny someone pain meds who really needs it. One thing I don't deal with much is chronic pain. I see plenty of chronic pain patients, but treatment of their chronic pain is not typically within my scope of practice as a surgeon unless there is a surgical solution to their chronic pain, and I feel that the majority of those patients are better cared for by a chronic pain specialist or at least their primary care physician with respect to their ongoing pain management. I'm happy to see them and care for their surgical issues, but I don't feel that I'm the best person to be managing their chronic pain, that's not what I have training in. That's respectable. And that's the standpoint I'd take on it as well. I'd rather let a murderer walk than give an innocent man life in prison. That's exactly why I have a hard time understanding these government regulations. As if they know which medication is best for a specific case that only the doctor and patient could possibly know through visits etc. 
  
 Ampzx 
 Mon Aug 31 17:38:43 2015 UTC 
 That's respectable. And that's the standpoint I'd take on it as well. I'd rather let a murderer walk than give an innocent man life in prison. That's exactly why I have a hard time understanding these government regulations. As if they know which medication is best for a specific case that only the doctor and patient could possibly know through visits etc. 
  
 medical00110 
 Mon Aug 31 16:24:37 2015 UTC 
 It can be extremely difficult now especially if your injury or condition is difficult to image, as most are. I was a chronic pain patient for over a decade following an accident. I never became addicted; a true pain patient, without a history of emotional trauma, relates the feeling of being medicated on opioid therapy to chronic pain rather than euphoria - the constipation, constant tiredness and mental cloudiness. I was started on tramadol, muscle relaxants and antidepressants, but was eventually up to over 100mg of morphine, oxycodone (IR and XR) and hydrocodone daily. It ruined my life... I haven't been on narcotics for over a year now following multiple procedures! Luckily, I had the same doctors for over 10 years and they had known me prior to the accident when I was healthy and medication free. They knew I wasn't seeking out pain medications for illegitimate reasons and were advocates for me when sending me to pain specialists. I witnessed first hand the oxycodone epidemic as a chronic pain patient and it was horrible. Clinical visits went from being focused on compassionate care and returning the patient to their pervious quality of life into becoming, at times, almost interrogation sessions. Random drug screens were started for both prescribed and illegal drugs and one clinic even would call and you had 3 hours to bring your in your medication bottles containing the proper amount of pills or you were "fired". Luckily, I was at these clinics before their liability insurance implemented these changes, and I was never drug tested or called in to have my medications counted. It makes the patient feel like they should be guilty for seeking relief... I also had a wonderful pharmacy team who would bend over backwards to get me the CII medications I was prescribed. Good luck! 
  
 Imallvol7 
 Mon Aug 31 11:57:28 2015 UTC 
 http://abcnews.go.com/US/prescription-painkillers-record-number-americans-pain-medication/story?id=13421828 Because we use way too much of it and many people who perceive they need these meds do not need them and in the end it turns into dependency or addiction. There is quite a bit of research going on now about this subject and I expect better guidelines in the future with an emphasis on decreasing the role of opiates. 
  
 EselleM 
 Mon Aug 31 22:47:51 2015 UTC 
 My doctor refused opiates for two reasons: addiction and they can actually make chronic pain worse. 
  
 Ampzx 
 Tue Sep 1 20:47:55 2015 UTC 
 Okay well what about this. Another confusing thing. When I talk to any doctor that is a pain specialist in medicine they don't even take insurance. They take cash only.. like wtf, why? I pay 488.05 a month for personal choice... I can't fathom what's going on with this shady ass practice you doctors have going mainly because of the addicts that are patients 
  
 stressedreversed 
 Mon Aug 31 14:38:13 2015 UTC 
 I don't know much about this except I thought people only really used the strong pain medicine after surgery or something big, unless they were addicts or something. I can't imagine people taking that every day, that can't be good for you. I hope you feel better soon. Reasonable or not, I'd estimate 75% of the patients I see in the hospital are on large doses of narcotic pain medications chronically before their admission. It is an extremely common and a difficult issue. This is not directed at you, Mmedical, but this is in my Unread tab and I can reply here, so I just clicked it. I am sorry if I offended anyone with my remarks, they were not intended to be hurtful. I have only heard about this stuff in occasional articles I've come across when researching my stance on medical marijuana, as our state was getting ready to vote for or against it at the time. I don't doubt that the issue is more nuanced than a short news release will ever tell me. So, please accept my humble apology and I do not need any more red envelope messages from anyone! I feel like I'm Harry Potter, receiving a Howler. :-P 
  
 Mmedical 
 Mon Aug 31 16:35:57 2015 UTC 
 Reasonable or not, I'd estimate 75% of the patients I see in the hospital are on large doses of narcotic pain medications chronically before their admission. It is an extremely common and a difficult issue. This is not directed at you, Mmedical, but this is in my Unread tab and I can reply here, so I just clicked it. I am sorry if I offended anyone with my remarks, they were not intended to be hurtful. I have only heard about this stuff in occasional articles I've come across when researching my stance on medical marijuana, as our state was getting ready to vote for or against it at the time. I don't doubt that the issue is more nuanced than a short news release will ever tell me. So, please accept my humble apology and I do not need any more red envelope messages from anyone! I feel like I'm Harry Potter, receiving a Howler. :-P 
  
 stressedreversed 
 Tue Sep 1 03:15:56 2015 UTC 
 This is not directed at you, Mmedical, but this is in my Unread tab and I can reply here, so I just clicked it. I am sorry if I offended anyone with my remarks, they were not intended to be hurtful. I have only heard about this stuff in occasional articles I've come across when researching my stance on medical marijuana, as our state was getting ready to vote for or against it at the time. I don't doubt that the issue is more nuanced than a short news release will ever tell me. So, please accept my humble apology and I do not need any more red envelope messages from anyone! I feel like I'm Harry Potter, receiving a Howler. :-P 
  
 