My girlfriend (22y.o./5'7"/182lbs) has a thyroid problem causing her metabolism to be severely low (around 32 she says normally it was up around 150), docs will not give her medication until shes 30 due to meds being highly addictive. 
 Vallkerij 
 Mon Aug 31 16:52:41 2015 UTC 
 EDIT: Forgot to add that she is Caucasian As the title says. Also she believes this issue was caused by the birth control she was put on, which caused her metabolism to slow down for "the baby". She is upset because the doctors did not tell her this and after it happened they said there are meds we can put you on but we wont at your age because they are highly addictive, they also told her that the way her metabolism and the thyroid issue is, she will not lose weight even if she starves herself for 2-3 weeks. She is really upset because the doctors will not give her the medication she needs. She is a very happy person otherwise and does not want to tell doctors it's making her depressed because she does not want it on her record. I just want to know if there are any other options we can try? Anything natural or OTC before she has to be put on these meds? She has already tried all the OTC metabolism boosters and she has taken accelerated B12. Thank you for your help! 
  
 drkrunch 
 Mon Aug 31 20:35:10 2015 UTC 
 It sounds like there has been some sort of miscommunication between the doctor, your girlfriend, and you. Thyroid medications are not addictive, and if she actually has a thyroid problem, then it is dangerous to leave it untreated. It does not make much sense for birth control to have a big effect on the thyroid. The whole "metabolism is 32 instead of 150" thing also does not make much sense to me...I don't know what number you are talking about there, and that's not really a thing anyway...your "metabolism" cannot just be 1/5 of someone else's; your body still needs to maintain its temperature and synthesize proteins and transport ions etc etc. Was she seeing a medical doctor or some sort of alternative practitioner? What country? This! My mum has hypothyroidism and has been taking thyroxine since she was 19yo. The thing is she was misdiagnosed and had hyperthyroidism but because her GP was treating her for hypo (for the past 30years) her thyroid disease transmuted from hyper into hypo. She ended having to get them removed because her goiter was constricting her airway. We are in the US and it was a medical doctor. I'll ask her today to clear some things up and we'll hopefully get to the bottom of this and get it treated. 
  
 BelindaBerry 
 Mon Aug 31 23:23:07 2015 UTC 
 This! My mum has hypothyroidism and has been taking thyroxine since she was 19yo. The thing is she was misdiagnosed and had hyperthyroidism but because her GP was treating her for hypo (for the past 30years) her thyroid disease transmuted from hyper into hypo. She ended having to get them removed because her goiter was constricting her airway. 
  
 Vallkerij 
 Tue Sep 1 15:55:50 2015 UTC 
 We are in the US and it was a medical doctor. I'll ask her today to clear some things up and we'll hopefully get to the bottom of this and get it treated. 
  
 HuntingtonPeach 
 Mon Aug 31 22:21:27 2015 UTC 
 Yes, agree with other poster, there are some things here which might have been lost in translation because they don't make much sense, and we need more info. Birth control doesn't usually affect thyroid function. It's ridiculous for a doctor to tell her that she won't lose weight even if she starves herself for weeks -- wtf? That will make anyone lose weight, I guarantee it. Thyroid medication is not addictive, and as the other user pointed out, should definitely be considered if your gf has a real hypothyroid condition. The numbers you cited about 32 and 150 are confusing -- don't know what those are. Lab tests either measure thyroid hormone levels or sometimes thyroid antibodies, and not a person's metabolism. Perhaps clarifying those numbers would be helpful. In any case, if she were to count calories -- which is a hassle, I know -- and eat, say, anywhere between 1200 to 1500 or 1600 per day, especially with a little added exercise, she should lose weight. Even thyroid conditions can't totally break the first law of thermodynamics. What therapies has she tried, what did the doctors try, and where is she located? The numbers I cited were her thyroid hormone levels I believe. And she eats pretty healthy for the most part, I'll have her start counting her calories so we can get an idea of where shes at, and I'll go on a diet with her so it's easier for her to stay motivated. We are in Southern California, and from what she has told me the doctors told her she has to "bear through it" until shes 30 so they can put her on this medication. 
  
 Vallkerij 
 Tue Sep 1 15:52:51 2015 UTC 
 The numbers I cited were her thyroid hormone levels I believe. And she eats pretty healthy for the most part, I'll have her start counting her calories so we can get an idea of where shes at, and I'll go on a diet with her so it's easier for her to stay motivated. We are in Southern California, and from what she has told me the doctors told her she has to "bear through it" until shes 30 so they can put her on this medication. 
  
 jams1015 
 Mon Aug 31 23:41:59 2015 UTC 
 So, I am not a doctor (great way to start a sentence in a medical advice forum, right?), but I had a thyroidectomy about a dozen years ago due to thyroid cancer. My perspective is from the stance of a long-term hypothyroidism patient. When you are hypo, you feel like ass. It can make you feel depressed, and can cause you to feel fatigued, it can make it harder to lose or maintain your weight without seriously restricting calories or increasing your exercise... but it won't create weight gain in a vacuum and taking Synthroid is not a magical weight loss pill whatsoever, You still have to practice common sense eating and activity or you won't lose weight, it just makes the process less arduous (ie: you can exercise a reasonable 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week and eat around 1800 calories and maintain or possibly lose, while if you are hypo, you will be eating 1200 calories and exercising an hour a day just to stay fun-sized). So, please let her know that the purpose of Synthroid is not weight loss, although it becomes slightly easier when you're not hypo; rather, it is to maintain your body's functions, because you realize pretty darn quickly that nearly everything relies on your thyroid to some extent. As the doctors in the thread said, it can be dangerous to leave an underactive thyroid untreated-life or death. So, I highly doubt her doctor is refusing to put her on it due to addiction. It's not addictive, and even if it were, better addicted than dead. I wonder if they are waiting to see a repeat labwork, because often people who start Synthroid end up on some dose of it for life. Maybe he's trying to see if this was a fluke result, and will wait until the next labwork to determine whether she needs (possibly lifelong) medication. That's not a bad thing! He may be saving her from a lot of future labwork and a lifetime of daily meds. Ask her what her TSH was. It is a much smaller number than you threw out there, usually between 0.5-4.0 or so. The higher the number is above 4, the less her thyroid is functioning, aka underactive or hypothyroidism. If the number falls under 0.5, it is because the thyroid is overactive, aka hyperthyroidism. Also, you mention that the birth control caused her metabolism to slow down because of the baby? What does that mean? She shouldn't be on birth control while pregnant. I wonder if she is talking about a diet pill of some sort, since this seems to have to do with weight loss. Some of those are dangerous and the risks may outweigh the benefits in her situation and her doctor is looking out for her best interest. B-12 is different than thyroid. You would not treat hypothyroidism with B-12. You would treat B-12 deficiency or some type of anemia with B-12. Anyway, hope that helps some. Good luck to her! Thank you for the reply! She understands fully that it is not a weight loss medication, she just wants to get her body functioning normally so she can lose the weight herself. and yes she was on a birth control that she believes did it to her, I put "because of the baby" in quotes because it made her body think she was having a baby. I plan on showing her all that everyone said here so she can get an idea on what to do. 
  
 Vallkerij 
 Tue Sep 1 15:48:51 2015 UTC 
 Thank you for the reply! She understands fully that it is not a weight loss medication, she just wants to get her body functioning normally so she can lose the weight herself. and yes she was on a birth control that she believes did it to her, I put "because of the baby" in quotes because it made her body think she was having a baby. I plan on showing her all that everyone said here so she can get an idea on what to do. 
  
 