Blood pressure question 
 dappijue 
 Sat Sep 26 07:15:11 2015 UTC 
 Hi, I'm an ER nurse and I have a question that might possibly be dumb or I should already know this...so I had a (younger) patient who came in for unrelated issues with a history of strokes from HTN. Their blood pressure was 260 systolic, the PA wrote for oral clonidine to bring it down. I was asking another nurse why PO and not an IV med and they were like, oh you don't want to drop the blood pressure too fast if they are used to it being that high. At the time I was thinking, yeah that makes sense. But now that I'm thinking about it again I really don't understand why...what will happen if the blood pressure is suddenly dropped into a more normal range? A Bp of like 180 systolic wouldn't have issues with perfusion even if they were used to way higher would it? All I can think is maybe they would feel crappy, but at least they wouldn't be at a risk for strokes with a crazy high blood pressure. The patient was asymptomatic, but the history of MULTIPLE strokes made me feel really nervous about it. I don't know, am I missing something here? 
  
 IntMedisBestMed 
 Sat Sep 26 07:40:43 2015 UTC 
 This is a great question, and one that actually matters who is treating the patient. In the ED, if the patient doesn't have signs of end organ damage, there is no pressing reason to treat. Resume home meds or reasonable regime. When that same patient is admitted, we chase after that BP to bring it down. Slightly, but not radically. Anyway, that's not your question. Why not just knock that BP into 120/80? Well, the idea is that the vessels/microvascular tone are "used" to the high BP. Cerebral blood flow isn't a direct relation to peripheral blood flow. The cerebral vessels autoregulate after a certain MAP. Drop it all the sudden? The tone of some cerebral vessels lag behind. Now all the sudden small vessels of the brain expect a pressure average (MAP) of 120, but instead get 70. Blood flow is stopped for a temporary amount of time, maybe only a few minutes or seconds. What do we call no blood flow to a small part of a brain for a small amount of time? CVA. Thank you for this answer. Except now I have another question...so is there a point at which the blood pressure is so high you have to get aggressive with lowering it? A patient with a blood pressure of 300 systolic or something crazy high like that. At this point would you just be like, fuck you eyes and kidneys we are keeping the brain alive, and drop it slowly to the upper 200's to maintain the MAP? Sure, there is such a point. Usually the brain is having problems handling the pressure. "Aggressive" is a difficult term. The diastolic matters more than systolic. (it makes up 2/3 of the MAP, remember) These patients go to the MICU. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/166129-treatment Thanks for your answers! If I ever get a patient with a blood pressure that high I will be sure to pay close attention to the diastolic and the MAP. And probably shit myself. 
  
 dappijue 
 Sat Sep 26 07:54:53 2015 UTC 
 Thank you for this answer. Except now I have another question...so is there a point at which the blood pressure is so high you have to get aggressive with lowering it? A patient with a blood pressure of 300 systolic or something crazy high like that. At this point would you just be like, fuck you eyes and kidneys we are keeping the brain alive, and drop it slowly to the upper 200's to maintain the MAP? Sure, there is such a point. Usually the brain is having problems handling the pressure. "Aggressive" is a difficult term. The diastolic matters more than systolic. (it makes up 2/3 of the MAP, remember) These patients go to the MICU. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/166129-treatment Thanks for your answers! If I ever get a patient with a blood pressure that high I will be sure to pay close attention to the diastolic and the MAP. And probably shit myself. 
  
 IntMedisBestMed 
 Sat Sep 26 08:13:28 2015 UTC 
 Sure, there is such a point. Usually the brain is having problems handling the pressure. "Aggressive" is a difficult term. The diastolic matters more than systolic. (it makes up 2/3 of the MAP, remember) These patients go to the MICU. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/166129-treatment Thanks for your answers! If I ever get a patient with a blood pressure that high I will be sure to pay close attention to the diastolic and the MAP. And probably shit myself. 
  
 dappijue 
 Sat Sep 26 09:09:21 2015 UTC 
 Thanks for your answers! If I ever get a patient with a blood pressure that high I will be sure to pay close attention to the diastolic and the MAP. And probably shit myself. 
  
 