Sudden Blurry Spot in Vision! 
 2691Throwaway 
 Tue Sep 29 08:48:14 2015 UTC 
 Hi. I'm a 23 year old female. Today, while on reddit, I started encountering difficulties reading. I first noticed this as I was reading a large block of text. It was like some of the letters were sort of disappearing... the letters to the right of the ones I was currently reading. Thinking that it must be the strain of reading from a screen, I tried looking at other things, like my arm and a book. I noticed there's a blurry spot in my vision, just to the right and down from the centre of my focus. It was more like an elongated patch than a round spot... an area of wriggly lines, like static on tv. I was also experiencing a slight headache. I'd had this headache yesterday as well but it wasn't there when I woke up this morning. It had started again after I got on the laptop. Not much pain and there's also a slight feeling of pressure. I tried looking around at objects at varying distances but the blurry area was still there. I tried closing one eye and then the other, but it was there and at the same location (slightly to the right and slightly down as I mentioned earlier). I googled this and found that it could be a symptom of all kinds of things, from macular degeneration, retinal detachment to severe depression. I've been going through a pretty rough phase right now and reading about the possibility of future blindness sent me over the edge and I panicked and started crying (I know, overreaction). I cried for maybe about 5 minutes and then when I checked again, the problem was gone. My vision seems normal right now. I can read off the screen with no issues. But the headache is still there. I should mention that my mother was diagnosed with macular degeneration and my aunt (father's sister) had retinal detachment. For the past year, I've been reading off computer screens much more than usual. For a while, I have had the suspicion that my vision is going down. I've been experiencing a bit of blurriness when looking at objects far away... sometimes I can't recognize faces of people who are standing maybe about 20 feet away. I've been meaning to go see a doctor but I can't right now because life is very hectic and stressful and it will be another month or so before I can find time to go. I'll also need to keep reading off computer screens for the next month at least. So can anyone here tell me more about this? Why was it cured by tears? Is it okay if I wait another month before seeing a doctor? Should I completely avoid computer screens or is it okay if I read off them for a certain number of hours per day? Thanks in advance! Apologies for any mistakes in my English; I'm not a native speaker. 
  
 nerdpulse 
 Tue Sep 29 14:13:25 2015 UTC 
 Not a physician, but I've had this happen dozens of times, typically about 30-45 minutes before a massive migraine. I know now if it happens to start taking meds immediately to head off the worst of the headache. Thank you for replying. I'm pretty certain now it was a migraine symptom though I had only very little pain. 
  
 2691Throwaway 
 Tue Sep 29 14:34:21 2015 UTC 
 Thank you for replying. I'm pretty certain now it was a migraine symptom though I had only very little pain. 
  
 murpahurp 
 Tue Sep 29 12:19:39 2015 UTC 
 I think you experienced a migraine aura. Typically the ocular symptoms look like the air above hot tarmac, and disappear within an hour, often but not always followed by a headache. the air above hot tarmac Yes, that's it exactly. Thank you so much. From yours and others' replies, I'm almost certain that it is a migraine aura. Could you also please tell me whether it is likely that I might get a not-so-painless migraine at some point? Edit: And I should see a doctor about this? A neurologist? 
  
 2691Throwaway 
 Tue Sep 29 14:32:43 2015 UTC 
 the air above hot tarmac Yes, that's it exactly. Thank you so much. From yours and others' replies, I'm almost certain that it is a migraine aura. Could you also please tell me whether it is likely that I might get a not-so-painless migraine at some point? Edit: And I should see a doctor about this? A neurologist? 
  
 Chayoss 
 Tue Sep 29 12:39:53 2015 UTC 
 Almost certainly a migraine with aura. Thank you. From what I've read about them, I think it's safe to conclude that this was one. I'll go see a doctor soon. Thanks again. And any advice you can give me about dealing with this will be much appreciated. :) If this is the first one, there's not much to do to treat them. Most people only get a few per year and manage fine with over the counter migraine meds - paracetamol, sometimes with aspirin/caffeine. Sometimes people can work out exactly what's triggering them (if anything) based on a migraine diary. If you're getting them more frequently, a lot of people find triptans like sumatriptan work nicely. We're not too sure exactly what causes migraines, but we think they're related to blood flow to the brain in specific regions - when vessels clamp down inappropriately, the 'short of blood' feeling gives you your symptoms. It's otherwise harmless. So we use drugs to try to open up the vessels, and that's exactly what triptans do. For 99% of the population that's more than sufficient. For the few who get so many migraines that triptans aren't cutting it, we can offer preventative medications, but chances are that won't be applicable to you. Yes, this was the first one. Aside from freaking me out and making reading a bit harder, there wasn't much of an issue. And it lasted for less than 30 minutes. I'm actually pretty relieved that it does not seem to be macular degeneration. I'll be seeing an eye doctor just to be on the safe side. I'll start a diary if I get another one. In the meantime, I'll do something about my stressed out life. And I'll save your comment for possible future needs. Thank you so much for that explanation and for the advice. I'm really grateful. :) 
  
 2691Throwaway 
 Tue Sep 29 14:40:37 2015 UTC 
 Thank you. From what I've read about them, I think it's safe to conclude that this was one. I'll go see a doctor soon. Thanks again. And any advice you can give me about dealing with this will be much appreciated. :) If this is the first one, there's not much to do to treat them. Most people only get a few per year and manage fine with over the counter migraine meds - paracetamol, sometimes with aspirin/caffeine. Sometimes people can work out exactly what's triggering them (if anything) based on a migraine diary. If you're getting them more frequently, a lot of people find triptans like sumatriptan work nicely. We're not too sure exactly what causes migraines, but we think they're related to blood flow to the brain in specific regions - when vessels clamp down inappropriately, the 'short of blood' feeling gives you your symptoms. It's otherwise harmless. So we use drugs to try to open up the vessels, and that's exactly what triptans do. For 99% of the population that's more than sufficient. For the few who get so many migraines that triptans aren't cutting it, we can offer preventative medications, but chances are that won't be applicable to you. Yes, this was the first one. Aside from freaking me out and making reading a bit harder, there wasn't much of an issue. And it lasted for less than 30 minutes. I'm actually pretty relieved that it does not seem to be macular degeneration. I'll be seeing an eye doctor just to be on the safe side. I'll start a diary if I get another one. In the meantime, I'll do something about my stressed out life. And I'll save your comment for possible future needs. Thank you so much for that explanation and for the advice. I'm really grateful. :) 
  
 Chayoss 
 Tue Sep 29 14:45:31 2015 UTC 
 If this is the first one, there's not much to do to treat them. Most people only get a few per year and manage fine with over the counter migraine meds - paracetamol, sometimes with aspirin/caffeine. Sometimes people can work out exactly what's triggering them (if anything) based on a migraine diary. If you're getting them more frequently, a lot of people find triptans like sumatriptan work nicely. We're not too sure exactly what causes migraines, but we think they're related to blood flow to the brain in specific regions - when vessels clamp down inappropriately, the 'short of blood' feeling gives you your symptoms. It's otherwise harmless. So we use drugs to try to open up the vessels, and that's exactly what triptans do. For 99% of the population that's more than sufficient. For the few who get so many migraines that triptans aren't cutting it, we can offer preventative medications, but chances are that won't be applicable to you. Yes, this was the first one. Aside from freaking me out and making reading a bit harder, there wasn't much of an issue. And it lasted for less than 30 minutes. I'm actually pretty relieved that it does not seem to be macular degeneration. I'll be seeing an eye doctor just to be on the safe side. I'll start a diary if I get another one. In the meantime, I'll do something about my stressed out life. And I'll save your comment for possible future needs. Thank you so much for that explanation and for the advice. I'm really grateful. :) 
  
 2691Throwaway 
 Tue Sep 29 14:57:10 2015 UTC 
 Yes, this was the first one. Aside from freaking me out and making reading a bit harder, there wasn't much of an issue. And it lasted for less than 30 minutes. I'm actually pretty relieved that it does not seem to be macular degeneration. I'll be seeing an eye doctor just to be on the safe side. I'll start a diary if I get another one. In the meantime, I'll do something about my stressed out life. And I'll save your comment for possible future needs. Thank you so much for that explanation and for the advice. I'm really grateful. :) 
  
 