Can't sleep due to violent coughing while laying down 
 HorseyWife 
 Tue Sep 29 15:20:28 2015 UTC 
 I have had some kind of infection for about a week now and it's morphed into just a dripping nose, chest pain and a cough. This is all something I can suffer through but I have a problem that is absolutely going to kill me if I can't solve it soon. For the last three days I have had 2 hours sleep total. If I try to sleep the very moment I go horizontal or slack my head too long I am hit with a huge, rasping, painful coughing fit that lasts about 3 minutes. It makes sleep basically impossible. I tried very hard to get to sleep in a vertical position but when I did not more than twenty minutes later my head slumped off to the side and I jerked awake coughing. I went to a doctor who told me to take cough syrup with dextromethorphan which I tried and even at the largest possible dose it didn't do anything. I've tried lozenges too but they don't do anything. Isn't there something I can do? They say to rest when you're sick but I'm taped in a paradox of being too sick to rest! 
  
 nybgrus 
 Tue Sep 29 16:50:59 2015 UTC 
 Perhaps trying a good decongestant like pseudoephedrine would work. It sounds like you are having post-nasal drip that is causing your cough. My god! It worked. I never thought to take that since I can still breath out of my nose. Im currently laying down without coughing! Glad to hear it worked! 
  
 HorseyWife 
 Tue Sep 29 21:40:24 2015 UTC 
 My god! It worked. I never thought to take that since I can still breath out of my nose. Im currently laying down without coughing! Glad to hear it worked! 
  
 nybgrus 
 Tue Sep 29 21:48:22 2015 UTC 
 Glad to hear it worked! 
  
 cobaltblue1994 
 Wed Sep 30 02:36:48 2015 UTC 
 Glad the pseudophedrine worked! This is due to dripping from your nasal cavities tickling the back of your throat. Lying on your stomach may also help, and your doctor should also be able to give you a prescription medicine that should help as well (although some of these just knock you out so you can sleep). I ultimately ended up asking the pharmacy if they had a cough syrup that contained it (I took it in pill form) and they sold me a bottle containing both it and codeine. Hopefully tonight will be good but honestly I was just losing my mind with lack of sleep and all my google fu wasnt helping. Reddit is a really useful place to be! Thank you for making it so! No problem! You can also try sleeping on your sides, or with your head and back more elevated, although sometimes it's hard to sleep like this, and these aren't always great fixes. Good luck! 
  
 HorseyWife 
 Wed Sep 30 03:07:20 2015 UTC 
 I ultimately ended up asking the pharmacy if they had a cough syrup that contained it (I took it in pill form) and they sold me a bottle containing both it and codeine. Hopefully tonight will be good but honestly I was just losing my mind with lack of sleep and all my google fu wasnt helping. Reddit is a really useful place to be! Thank you for making it so! No problem! You can also try sleeping on your sides, or with your head and back more elevated, although sometimes it's hard to sleep like this, and these aren't always great fixes. Good luck! 
  
 cobaltblue1994 
 Wed Sep 30 04:03:16 2015 UTC 
 No problem! You can also try sleeping on your sides, or with your head and back more elevated, although sometimes it's hard to sleep like this, and these aren't always great fixes. Good luck! 
  
 