Viral throat infection, according to my house doctor. 
 AutumnFaeri 
 Thu Oct 1 17:34:18 2015 UTC 
 Age: 21 Sex: (Trans woman, it should be obvious) Height: 6ft/184cm Weight: around 80 kilograms. Race: White (Dutch, bit of french and bit of belgium to be specific) Duration of complaint: Since around the end of April. Location: Tonsils/back of the throat. (The Netherlands) Any existing relevant medical issues: No Current medications: Cyproterone acetate 50mg once a day and estrodiol progynova 2mg twice a day. Okay so I've been having this pain in my throat and overal head for about half a year now, it's usually in my throat and it's usually red. Sometimes it's not very painful but sometimes it's really painful. I've been to my house doctor SEVERAL times and according to him it's a viral throat infection. But it doesn't just affect my throat, it also affect my eyes, they get very irritated and sometimes really red when I rub then, my head sometimes also hurts sometimes, headaches and stuff. Nothing of this is really holding me back from doing stuff but I'm sick of the constant discomfort. I also sneeze a lot when I have pain in my eyes, there's nothing wrong with my vision however. My girlfriend said it's probably an allergy because my room hasn't been cleaned in the longest time and it's really dirty and dusty, so I could believe that. Anyway my doctor recommended me to drink paracetamols crushed up (two of them) along with warm water and a lemon squeezed in it, oh and gargle it aswell. Now I haven't been doing this for longer than 2 days straight at best in a row because it's just disgusting but he told me to do it for about a week, and also drink honey and thee and stuff. Anyway this is all I can think of, if there's anything else I can specify let me now. This has been very frustrating and I want it to end. 
  
 orthostatic_htn 
 Thu Oct 1 19:16:40 2015 UTC 
 Sounds to me as though you're having minor allergies, as your girlfriend suggested. Have you tried basic antihistamines? I tried basic allergy pills for about two weeks but I still had a red throat, however it was less red and less irritated. My eyes still kinda hurt and so did my throat so it might be more maybe? You may need a different allergy medication, or simply to take it for longer. Sounds like it did help some, so I'd start out with that. I'll do just that, thanks! 
  
 AutumnFaeri 
 Thu Oct 1 19:20:49 2015 UTC 
 I tried basic allergy pills for about two weeks but I still had a red throat, however it was less red and less irritated. My eyes still kinda hurt and so did my throat so it might be more maybe? You may need a different allergy medication, or simply to take it for longer. Sounds like it did help some, so I'd start out with that. I'll do just that, thanks! 
  
 orthostatic_htn 
 Thu Oct 1 19:25:36 2015 UTC 
 You may need a different allergy medication, or simply to take it for longer. Sounds like it did help some, so I'd start out with that. I'll do just that, thanks! 
  
 AutumnFaeri 
 Thu Oct 1 19:50:06 2015 UTC 
 I'll do just that, thanks! 
  
 