Severe abdominal pain with history of gastrointestinal discomfort. Thoughts? 
 woolypumpkin 
 Mon Oct 5 12:54:20 2015 UTC 
 Male, 22, 6ft 2in, 17.5 stn, strong build, Caucasian, 3/4 days of severe pain now, top of stomach below sternum, UK, no other medical issues. So I have experienced discomfort when I eat since I can remember. I always become heavily bloated, flatulent, and my stools are often very soft with a little bright red blood. I was assured the blood was not an issue before as it was thought to be an internal pile. However I was on holiday for a few days with my gf and when I returned last Friday I had a pain in my gut. I thought nothing and went to bed. However when I woke up i was in severe pain along the top of my stomach. My bowel movements completely stopped and anytime I ate anything my stomach felt like it was tearing itself apart. It has been like this all weekend. Food poisoning would probably have subsided a little by now and constipation is not the answer as I have passed very wet stools 3/4 times today already, with no relief. My mind immediately jumps to ulcer or pancreatitis brought on by the few days of poor diet while I was away, yes there was alcohol involved but nothing major. I have tried calling for a gp appointment but they are fully booked this week, any thoughts while I wait for an appointment? 
  
 Chayoss 
 Mon Oct 5 14:29:33 2015 UTC 
 It's possible it's GORD or an ulcer, or a presentation of IBD. It's hard to say without examining you but GP is the right first step. You may be able to call as soon as the GP opens to get a same-day appointment as GPs in the UK are required to keep a certain number of same day slots available for more urgent care. Pancreatitis seems less likely. It's worth noting that your BMI is 31.5, which is obese; losing weight helps with basically every GI problem - particularly GORD. However this sounds more like a possible gastric ulcer just based on that short history. Had my appointment, he has given me omeprazole for acid, my dad has severe acid reflux however I haven't had any reflux at all, he wants me to test that out and of there is no improvement go back for bloods. And as for my BMI I am currently loosing weight however I do regularly work out and have quite a large amount of muscle mass. 
  
 woolypumpkin 
 Mon Oct 5 14:52:57 2015 UTC 
 Had my appointment, he has given me omeprazole for acid, my dad has severe acid reflux however I haven't had any reflux at all, he wants me to test that out and of there is no improvement go back for bloods. And as for my BMI I am currently loosing weight however I do regularly work out and have quite a large amount of muscle mass. 
  
 tcc1 
 Mon Oct 5 15:59:08 2015 UTC 
 Severe pain --> ER not a forum Been to my gp today, been given gastro tabs for acid and told to take painkiller if and when the need arises. Only reason I posted is because I thought I might not get an appointment for a while. Thanks for the concern anyway! :) 
  
 woolypumpkin 
 Mon Oct 5 16:00:58 2015 UTC 
 Been to my gp today, been given gastro tabs for acid and told to take painkiller if and when the need arises. Only reason I posted is because I thought I might not get an appointment for a while. Thanks for the concern anyway! :) 
  
 