Looking for insight on my 5 year olds abdominal pain. 2 incidents that are odd and completely identical. 
 Elaine_Marley1 
 Mon Oct 5 15:18:18 2015 UTC 
 This has happened twice about 3 months apart. Literally the exact same course of events. My son complains of pain that begins on his left side and moves toward his belly button. He asks to sit on the toilet but nothing happens. He has a high pain tolerance and this has him crying. Each time we've taken him to emergency. In the parking lot both times he vomited a small amount. Then he feels fine. The doctors see him and conform he seems ok... Check appendix etc. send him home. He vomits once more when we get home - this time with more volume. (again both times). Then he is completely back to normal. He has no fever and no other symptoms. He has a duplicated ureter (I'm not sure if it's his left side?) not on any medications. Any idea what this could be? Is there something I should be considering? This time he has a nasty cold but I'm not sure if he had one last time. 
  
 tcc1 
 Mon Oct 5 15:20:27 2015 UTC 
 sounds like intermittent intussusception, especially in the setting of a URI Should we follow up? Is this something that should be found and treated? Like I say he now has no symptoms and seems fine first you need to sort out what this is - there are other things in the differential besides appendicitis and intuss. you absolutely must follow up. my concern would be with 2 episodes, if this is intuss, is there may be what's called a "lead point", ie something in the gut which may be predisposing your kid to recurrent episodes. It is not an an emergency as long as during an episode it spontaneously reduces and all symptoms resolve, which it appears to be doing. Thank you for this. I'll make an apt with our family doctor to follow up. Better safe than sorry!! One episode I could write off as weird virus... Two identical incidents seemed very odd to me Along with what /u/tcc1 said, this does sound like intermittent intussusception. Considering the age of the child I would also rule out a simple obstruction caused by eating something he wasn't supposed to (even something like hair). edit----- forgot to say, as tcc1 said, get it checked out. A pediatric gastroenterologist may be the place to go (maybe a regular gastro? not sure if there is a pediatric subset of gastroenterology). 
  
 Elaine_Marley1 
 Mon Oct 5 15:24:00 2015 UTC 
 Should we follow up? Is this something that should be found and treated? Like I say he now has no symptoms and seems fine first you need to sort out what this is - there are other things in the differential besides appendicitis and intuss. you absolutely must follow up. my concern would be with 2 episodes, if this is intuss, is there may be what's called a "lead point", ie something in the gut which may be predisposing your kid to recurrent episodes. It is not an an emergency as long as during an episode it spontaneously reduces and all symptoms resolve, which it appears to be doing. Thank you for this. I'll make an apt with our family doctor to follow up. Better safe than sorry!! One episode I could write off as weird virus... Two identical incidents seemed very odd to me Along with what /u/tcc1 said, this does sound like intermittent intussusception. Considering the age of the child I would also rule out a simple obstruction caused by eating something he wasn't supposed to (even something like hair). edit----- forgot to say, as tcc1 said, get it checked out. A pediatric gastroenterologist may be the place to go (maybe a regular gastro? not sure if there is a pediatric subset of gastroenterology). 
  
 tcc1 
 Mon Oct 5 15:34:19 2015 UTC 
 first you need to sort out what this is - there are other things in the differential besides appendicitis and intuss. you absolutely must follow up. my concern would be with 2 episodes, if this is intuss, is there may be what's called a "lead point", ie something in the gut which may be predisposing your kid to recurrent episodes. It is not an an emergency as long as during an episode it spontaneously reduces and all symptoms resolve, which it appears to be doing. Thank you for this. I'll make an apt with our family doctor to follow up. Better safe than sorry!! One episode I could write off as weird virus... Two identical incidents seemed very odd to me 
  
 Elaine_Marley1 
 Mon Oct 5 17:36:21 2015 UTC 
 Thank you for this. I'll make an apt with our family doctor to follow up. Better safe than sorry!! One episode I could write off as weird virus... Two identical incidents seemed very odd to me 
  
 jmglee87three 
 Mon Oct 5 15:42:10 2015 UTC 
 Along with what /u/tcc1 said, this does sound like intermittent intussusception. Considering the age of the child I would also rule out a simple obstruction caused by eating something he wasn't supposed to (even something like hair). edit----- forgot to say, as tcc1 said, get it checked out. A pediatric gastroenterologist may be the place to go (maybe a regular gastro? not sure if there is a pediatric subset of gastroenterology). 
  
 