Mononucleosis and cognitive boon 
 starrscreen 
 Wed Oct 7 14:41:49 2015 UTC 
 Hey Reddit, I don’t necessarily have a problem or a condition; I just want some insight from people more educated than I. A few years ago (freshman year of college) I got mono and was subsequently hospitalized. I had a high fever, incredibly swollen tonsils, lymph node swelling, etc. They put me on a course of steroids and pain medication and kept me in the hospital for about two weeks. I didn’t eat much at all during those two weeks because I couldn’t stand the pain of swallowing. I would have some ice cream and some yoghurt occasionally but not much else. I was also basically bed-ridden and only got up to stumble to the bathroom. When they discharged me I could barely walk because I’m assuming the muscles started atrophying in my legs due to lack of use and lack of nutritional protein. I also had lost almost 20 lbs. After I was discharged, I recovered in my dorm room for the next week or so but still didn’t go to class. So in all I missed about 3.5 weeks of classes and midterms were approaching. It was my first semester of school and I didn’t want to get behind academically so I thought I would do my best to make up the work and take the midterms with everybody else. Well surprisingly I studied and almost aced the midterms. And for the next two weeks everything academically seemed a lot easier. My ability to concentrate, absorb material, and understand new concepts was vastly improved. Eventually these abilities went away and I was back to my normal self. Well I’ve always wanted to feel that way again. Here are my thoughts on what could have caused the change: 1) The diet of strictly yoghurt (and a little ice cream) drastically and positively altered my microbiome. 2) 3 weeks of caloric restriction caused many changes in my body including reducing inflammation and body fat percentage and altering hormones and probably many other things. 3) 3 weeks without anxiety and worries unrelated to my illness. While I was in the hospital I was pretty relaxed and really didn’t have to worry about much. I was pretty confident that I was going to recover. 4) The heavy course of steroids that they gave me reduced bodily inflammation and did tons of other things. 5) Some combination of the above Any thoughts or suggestions? Tldr: Mono made me smarter 
  
 murpahurp 
 Wed Oct 7 18:30:36 2015 UTC 
 Probably the steroids. They can make you feel euphoric and energetic. Too bad the stuff is bad for you if you use it chronically I was on steroids for a cold that wouldn't go away and noticed the same effect. Clear headed, spring out of bed, friendly, able to focus, more patient. Kinda crazy what hormones can do for you. Is there any way I could replicate the positive side effects? I've been on stimulants plenty and I have felt energetic but I have never felt as clear headed and focused as I was back then. There was some news recently about a drug that makes you more clear headed and is apparently used in the underground for this. The study showed there were no apparent long term side effects. It was interesting as to the ethical implications if this holds up. But really its not worth your health to experiment with your brain. Would you mind telling me what the drug is? I have no plans on using it but I would love to do a little research myself. Honestly I forget. I saw the article just a week or two ago. I wouldn't even mention it except it just past some safety tests. He might be referring to modafinil. modafinil ...is probably the most popular nootropic. Chase the rabbit down the hole with some Googling. 
  
 hugebigfatrhino 
 Wed Oct 7 18:47:38 2015 UTC 
 I was on steroids for a cold that wouldn't go away and noticed the same effect. Clear headed, spring out of bed, friendly, able to focus, more patient. Kinda crazy what hormones can do for you. 
  
 starrscreen 
 Wed Oct 7 18:52:30 2015 UTC 
 Is there any way I could replicate the positive side effects? I've been on stimulants plenty and I have felt energetic but I have never felt as clear headed and focused as I was back then. There was some news recently about a drug that makes you more clear headed and is apparently used in the underground for this. The study showed there were no apparent long term side effects. It was interesting as to the ethical implications if this holds up. But really its not worth your health to experiment with your brain. Would you mind telling me what the drug is? I have no plans on using it but I would love to do a little research myself. Honestly I forget. I saw the article just a week or two ago. I wouldn't even mention it except it just past some safety tests. He might be referring to modafinil. modafinil ...is probably the most popular nootropic. Chase the rabbit down the hole with some Googling. 
  
 Sislar 
 Wed Oct 7 19:10:11 2015 UTC 
 There was some news recently about a drug that makes you more clear headed and is apparently used in the underground for this. The study showed there were no apparent long term side effects. It was interesting as to the ethical implications if this holds up. But really its not worth your health to experiment with your brain. Would you mind telling me what the drug is? I have no plans on using it but I would love to do a little research myself. Honestly I forget. I saw the article just a week or two ago. I wouldn't even mention it except it just past some safety tests. He might be referring to modafinil. modafinil ...is probably the most popular nootropic. Chase the rabbit down the hole with some Googling. 
  
 starrscreen 
 Wed Oct 7 20:23:29 2015 UTC 
 Would you mind telling me what the drug is? I have no plans on using it but I would love to do a little research myself. Honestly I forget. I saw the article just a week or two ago. I wouldn't even mention it except it just past some safety tests. He might be referring to modafinil. modafinil ...is probably the most popular nootropic. Chase the rabbit down the hole with some Googling. 
  
 Sislar 
 Wed Oct 7 20:31:50 2015 UTC 
 Honestly I forget. I saw the article just a week or two ago. I wouldn't even mention it except it just past some safety tests. 
  
 hans_super_hans 
 Wed Oct 7 20:38:48 2015 UTC 
 He might be referring to modafinil. modafinil ...is probably the most popular nootropic. Chase the rabbit down the hole with some Googling. 
  
 hugebigfatrhino 
 Wed Oct 7 20:53:45 2015 UTC 
 modafinil ...is probably the most popular nootropic. Chase the rabbit down the hole with some Googling. 
  
 juswannalurkpls 
 Thu Oct 8 02:03:37 2015 UTC 
 I had steroid induced mania a few years ago. Felt like I could do anything (and actually accomplished quite a bit). My chronic headaches and muscle problems disappeared and I got by on less than 5 hours of sleep a night. I got down to my optimal weight and stopped having hypoglycemia attacks. My mind was clear and constantly thinking up new ideas. My doctor explained that it was not sustainable and eventually my health would suffer because of it. It was nice while it lasted though. 
  
 