Stepped off a curb and rolled my ankle. Wondering about healing time. 
 anklequestion 
 Wed Oct 7 22:01:41 2015 UTC 
 I'm a 34 year old female in generally good health (5'7", 135 lbs). On October 2, I stepped off a curb, landed wrong, and ended up rolling my ankle (inward, if that matters). I was wearing dress shoes with low heels (about 1" if I had to guess). It hurt quite a bit and at first I thought I might have broken my ankle. Some passersby brought me some ice and called an ambulance which took me to the ER, and at the ER they took x-rays and told me that it wasn't broken. By that point the pain had nearly totally disappeared without me having taken any painkillers (even OTC). The ER put me in a knee-high stiff walking boot and crutches and I was able to hobble out of there. I've been wearing the boot since I left the hospital and have been surprised at the lack of pain I'm experiencing. My ankle is swollen and has just begun to show signs of bruising. Possibly relevant side note: About 10 years ago I had a lapidus bunionectomy on my right foot (the same side as my injured ankle) and three screws were placed in the center of my foot to stabilize the bones. My doctor tells me I have unusually flexible ligaments, which caused the bunion and foot pain. I've spoken to the orthopedic surgeon's office (the same one who did my bunionectomy) about my ankle and they directed me to continue wearing the boot for two weeks until I see them for a follow-up appointment. My question is about recovery time for this kind of injury. I had been planning to travel overseas in early November and I'm wondering if I'll be able to walk normally by then. How long do these types of injuries usually take to heal? 
  
 Chayoss 
 Wed Oct 7 22:15:58 2015 UTC 
 Soft tissue ankle injuries vary quite a lot in healing times. You're just under a week in, and you can probably expect your ankle to recover over another month to six weeks - hard to say without knowing exactly what happened. You'll probably be able to walk by early November but you may still be tender. Okay, thanks! 
  
 anklequestion 
 Thu Oct 8 07:13:41 2015 UTC 
 Okay, thanks! 
  
 