Hyperthyroid question 
 1JGHopkins 
 Thu Oct 8 03:49:30 2015 UTC 
 Age:29 Sex:Male Height:5'9" Weight:135.5 lbs Race: Caucasian Duration of complaint: 2 Months Location: Weight loss Any existing relevant medical issues: Right side thyroid removed in May of 2014 So I previously had half my thyroid removed because it was the size of a golf ball. My Endocrinologist said everything was fine, my left side was compensating well. But, in the last month I feel like I've lost a lot of weight, going from around 143 to 135. I am still making an appointment with my doctor, but my girlfriend is very worries so I figured I'd ask here. Is it possible that something with my thyroid is causing the weight loss? 
  
 basket_box 
 Thu Oct 8 04:25:28 2015 UTC 
 Hyperthyroid (too much thyroid hormone) can cause weight loss. Interestingly, if the half of your thyroid that remained was to not function properly, you would expect too little thyroid hormone, not too much. When you had the other half removed, were you told you were hyperthyroid or that you had Grave's disease? Were you put on thyroid hormone replacement? 9 pound loss in 2 months doesn't seem overly concerning, but was there a particular reason why you felt it was concerning? Do you feel like you are eating more/are hungry all the time, but still losing weight? It could also cause a number of other symptoms, including feeling really hot all the time (especially when other people don't think it is hot), skin or hair changes (dry/brittle), increased frequency of bowel movements, muscle weakness, and some extreme things like heart palpitations or tremors. I would say booking an appointment is a good idea, but there isn't really anything concerning that mean you need to see them ASAP. (Medical student) They never mentioned graves disease, just that my thyroid was very enlarged. The thing is I feel like I'm eating more and I recently switched to a job that requires MORE physical activity muscle wise, but I feel like instead of gaining weight from working harder i'm losing weight. Is 135.5 to thing for a guy with a smaller from whose is 5'9?" I was always told I should weigh around 150. And I know I was losing weight because of my thyroid before... If you were losing weight before, then it could very well be because you had high thyroid levels, and it is possible that you are experiencing the same thing now. I would definitely just make an appointment with your doctor and let them know about this. I feel like I am experiencing other symptoms I had before as well. Not sleeping well, easily distracted, anxiety, lack of appetite...which I ignore cause I know I need to eat more. They all seem to have been cropping up in the last few weeks. Are you on any medication? nope 
  
 1JGHopkins 
 Thu Oct 8 05:01:50 2015 UTC 
 They never mentioned graves disease, just that my thyroid was very enlarged. The thing is I feel like I'm eating more and I recently switched to a job that requires MORE physical activity muscle wise, but I feel like instead of gaining weight from working harder i'm losing weight. Is 135.5 to thing for a guy with a smaller from whose is 5'9?" I was always told I should weigh around 150. And I know I was losing weight because of my thyroid before... If you were losing weight before, then it could very well be because you had high thyroid levels, and it is possible that you are experiencing the same thing now. I would definitely just make an appointment with your doctor and let them know about this. I feel like I am experiencing other symptoms I had before as well. Not sleeping well, easily distracted, anxiety, lack of appetite...which I ignore cause I know I need to eat more. They all seem to have been cropping up in the last few weeks. Are you on any medication? nope 
  
 basket_box 
 Thu Oct 8 05:11:04 2015 UTC 
 If you were losing weight before, then it could very well be because you had high thyroid levels, and it is possible that you are experiencing the same thing now. I would definitely just make an appointment with your doctor and let them know about this. I feel like I am experiencing other symptoms I had before as well. Not sleeping well, easily distracted, anxiety, lack of appetite...which I ignore cause I know I need to eat more. They all seem to have been cropping up in the last few weeks. Are you on any medication? nope 
  
 1JGHopkins 
 Thu Oct 8 06:40:40 2015 UTC 
 I feel like I am experiencing other symptoms I had before as well. Not sleeping well, easily distracted, anxiety, lack of appetite...which I ignore cause I know I need to eat more. They all seem to have been cropping up in the last few weeks. Are you on any medication? nope 
  
 heartlegs 
 Thu Oct 8 08:52:51 2015 UTC 
 Are you on any medication? nope 
  
 1JGHopkins 
 Thu Oct 8 11:55:42 2015 UTC 
 nope 
  
 